The first part of the first episode  The first part of the first episode  The first part of the first episode  Hello! You are watching the Big Question. I am Ivan Bedrov.  How did the Communist Bulgaria try to cure the Turks exactly 40 years ago?  This is how we started this episode.  This story begins exactly on Monday night, 1984.  At that time, Bulgaria was ruled by the Communist Party.  The stores were short of goods.  People had no right to speak freely, to gather freely,  nor to express any disagreement with the policy of the BKP.  Then, on the evening of 1984,  the Communist state took away another right.  To choose the names of their children themselves.  Exactly 40 years ago, the state began its largest operation so far.  To forcefully change the names of about 800,000 people.  Later, it forbade them to use their mother tongue in public places.  And in the end, it managed to drive out over 300 000 people in neighboring Turkey.  This is how the Communist Bulgaria is trying to defeat the Turks.  40 years ago, the local population was sent by the army and the militia.  Witnesses say that planes and helicopters were flying with helicopters and planes. So, as absurd as it may sound, in practice the Bulgarian army attacks part of the territory of the People's Republic of Bulgaria.  Forty years later, there is no one who has taken any responsibility for these things, these events.  Then the state calls all of this a revolutionary process. All the same, the Turks felt a sense of rebirth and decided to change their names, which is not true.  The opposite is true.  These events are not told in the textbooks or in the media.  There is a high probability that you have never heard them.  There is a higher probability that you have heard a small detail and that you do't make a clear connection between the events.  This is the purpose of today's issue of The Big Question.  Together with journalist Tatyana Vaksberg, one of the few people in Bulgaria, we have researched these events.  Hello Tatyana, welcome!  Hello! We realize that a large part of our younger audience has heard these things for the first time.  My words are a little bit clashing with theirs.  Can we briefly, as a paragraph from a history textbook, remind what exactly happened then, 40 years ago, the Bulgarian Communist Party, the only party that was the leading force in the Bulgarian society at that time,  decided and implemented to take away the names of the Bulgarian Turks and prevent the emergence of Turkish names in the future.  This is a process that is accompanied by violence. The violence is carried out by the army and the militia.  People are sent to prisons and camps. This process lasts for five years.  As I say process, I mean the process of violence, not the process of renaming, this process lasted for five years and ended with the persecution of over 320,000 Bulgarian Turks in neighboring Turkey.  If I was the author of a history book, I would add another statement, which says that in the Bulgarian state, were other actions against the Turkish youth,  the other time the Muslims in Bulgaria were named,  but this has never happened in such short terms, with so much violence,  and it has never led to the persecution of such a number of people,  which is actually the deportation of such a large number of people.  I would like to remind that in Bulgarian history, without going into details,  in the 19th century and even more in the 20th century,  there were cases of renaming of the oppressed,  sometimes more often, of course, Bulgarian misc.  Most often popular as martyrs. But such a thing, in such a scale, directed at the entire Turkish population in Bulgaria, which is over 800 thousand people, according to data from those years,  such a thing Bulgaria, not only Bulgaria, but also Europe, has not seen since the Second World War.  But were there signs before that?  That is, does this happen all at once, or somehow the communist government has been ready and people have been clear about what will happen before? Did it happen suddenly? Or was the communist government ready and people were aware of what was going to happen?  No, nobody was aware of it. The process goes on for a long time.  The preparations are extremely secret.  Secret doesn't mean that we can't go back and investigate the period and find out what exactly was the rule. But by the time this happened, in the early 1980s,  this was a secret agreement between the then MBR and the then Politburo.  This process was prepared in two directions. Let's pretend we are 20 years old and we have no idea what happened back then.  Try to imagine any institution, I am talking about that this is a certain institution, but it should involve thousands of people in the implementation of something that is obviously violence against the person.  How can a minister within his own structure deal with such a thing? How can he convince them?  There are different people among them, people with different beliefs even then. How can I make them do this so that in three months, this is done in three months,  in three months they have to enter hundreds, thousands of villages, to physically take away the passports of 800 and 40 thousand people, let's remove the minors,  which means they are smaller, 700 and a few thousand,  to physically take these passports, to physically print the writing machine,  then there are no computers, new passports with other names,  to physically return them to so many people and all this to end in exactly three months.  If you are a minister, how do you do it? This is practically an unachievable task.  This explains why we are all focused on the day when the great crime begins,  with the great violence, with the entry of the army and militia entering the Kyrgyz district,  then it was called the Kyrgyz region, with the killings, with the arrests, with the murder of people.  But actually before that there is a process that makes progressive movements in the same direction,  it's just not so noisy, it's not so mass. It happens in different places, under different ideological packaging.  For a long time I thought that this was done to scare all Bulgarian Turks.  It was not just that. The goal was to attract the attention of the police, the police of the district police department.  It is important to clarify that in those years the police department is something powerful,  but in those years it is much bigger.  In terms of number of employees, resources, power and there is a lack of civil control. If we say now that there are some problems, then this is a huge country in the country  and that's why we are talking about a special military operation.  Things look like this.  Let's go back. Why December 24, 1984 is the date we have just mentioned. This is the date on which on the 24th of December,  the next day, let's remind you that the next day is not a holiday,  it is not celebrated because the country is atheistic.  But let's go back to the shoes of Meveret.  Meveret knows that people secretly celebrate the next day,  even though sometimes it is not so secret.  They know very well that people of the Bulgarian ethnicity are mostly focused on how to buy products for the family table,  how to please the children with gifts and so on.  This is not a random date. So on December 24, 1984 at 4 in the morning  is the surrounding Kyrgyzstan region, today's Kyrgyzstan region  from 11 KPP.  And inside this KPP is a checkpoint.  And inside this circle, if we imagine the Kyrgyzstan region as a circle, there is a narrower circle,  which had, if I'm not mistaken, 27 other checkpoint points.  What is the purpose? To prevent the movement inside and outside the Kyrgyz district. That is to stop the access of the people outside the district and the possibility for people from the district to escape.  I don't know why I put quotes. They say it in the meetings of the MRE, they beginning of this process, December 24, 1984.  I assume that for some of our younger audience, 1984, these four numbers that you see on the screen at the moment,  mean the title of a very popular book by George Orwell.  Let's clarify that there is nothing in common.  If there is something in common, it is that both in the book and in reality in Bulgaria  it is about unpleasant things.  But in fact it is an absolutely random coincidence.  And I suggest we see a very short cut from your film.  In 2001, the first film of Tatyana Vaksberg's film was shown for the first time,  The Technology of Evil, which studies exactly how everything happened then,  and shows testimonies of people who were part of these events.  Let's see a very small part of this film, which shows exactly what happened on December 24, 1984.  When we woke up in the morning, everything was blocked on the road.  The army, tanks and other vehicles.  And the forest and the soldiers.  And the fields along the hills.  Everything was surrounded. and along the hills, we will fix everything. I never allow that a country can get there.  Even the country to do so, with the army and police,  and some planes, soldiers, from below, they fly,  they fly from one side, you see, God does not give to anyone.  We can't look at it at all, couldn't even go out on the street.  In front of each house, a dozen of the military men were on the way,  and there they were talking to him in the plane, as if it were a military situation.  We rebelled and we will not want anything more.  And so they did.  On the evening of the day, the Kyrgyz district is already closed.  KPP buildings are built on the four main entrances to the district.  There is a  The district cannot enter and cannot exit.  From Bulgaria to Bulgaria, only specially prepared passes are entered.  The telephone connections of the district to the outside world are interrupted. Telegrams cannot be sent. The letters are not delivered.  In Kardzhali, the evening hour is introduced. Militiamen with guns and dogs walk through the streets of the towns and big villages.  So many people and so much equipment enter the district as necessary for a large-scale military operation.  On Christmas, the map of the fighting looks like this.  From the southwest, the district of Karjal is surrounded by the district  of the district management of the SMOLEN.  From the south, the 4th and 5th units of the border troops are mobilized.  From the north, reinforcements from the sergeant's school in Kazanlak come.  From the northwest, the sergeant's school in Dolni Bogrov and the 4th-year students  of the Central Militia School enter Kyrgyzstan.  All of them are added to the double number of militia students from Kyrgyzstan.  The fire department also works for them.  15 anti-fire vehicles, supplied with water weapons and a machine with a jet engine are sent into the district.  Other sergeants and officers are sent by buses from the district militia departments in Burgas, Vraca and Pleven. and the But Meverer also gave weapons to civilians, people from the volunteer units of the workers.  This was a reference to the movie The Evil of Tatiana Vaksberg from 2001.  If you pay attention, the man we saw, behind him there was a VEV transistor, that is, a radio device.  People were served with such radio devices banned by foreign radio stations as Radio Free Europe, Deutsche Welle and BBC.  If anyone in Bulgaria has learned what is happening in these regions, it was through Radio Free Europe, BBC, Deutsche Welle, foreign radio stations banned in Bulgaria.  Bulgarian media, controlled by the Communist Party,  do not report on this. Just imagine it today.  A military operation of this scale,  which has hit hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens,  will not find a place in the news in any way.  Tatyana, why should the state send so many soldiers and militiamen?  Militiamen? That's the old name of the police.  It should send them, because judging by the archives There are many soldiers and militiamen. Militiamen? That's the old name of the police.  He should send him, because judging by the archives left behind by the Communist Party and the MRE, these archives are, let me clarify, to remind people, fully open, freely accessible,  they can be read at the addresses of the Commission on Files and the Central State Archives.  I closed this bracket.  These archives show that Todor Zhivkov was concerned about not repeating the old mistakes he had made.  And the old mistakes were made by his regime ten years earlier, when he took over the renaming of the Pomatsi in the western Rhodope.  He complains that the mistake was that the process reason for this is probably verbal, because this information reaches us only as a pre-revelation.  The Minister of Internal Affairs informs his subordinates in the Ministry of Internal Affairs  about the meeting he had with Todor Zhivkov, who gave him instructions.  We don't have any black and white, any letter, document or something in which which Zhivkov, by his name, says this.  But this is what his minister has told us.  This mistake should not be repeated. Everything should happen very quickly.  How can it happen very quickly?  Something that we can't even imagine how it happens.  840,000 people, if you change the name,  300,000 of them approximately, are in the district of Krdzhali.  And what is Politburo doing?  It sends people to Krdzhali to make the name change.  After a while I will tell you how it happens technically.  And when this is done for a number of days,  I will tell you how long it takes, and for 22 days they managed to change the names of nearly 300 000 people.  Then the Politburo made a decision, and there is a written document for this,  that this process should be reproduced in North and North-East Bulgaria,  as a cover for all the other Bulgarian Turks.  And then, in the next two months and a few days,  ten days, this name will be added to a territory  that is much larger than that of just one district, Kyrgyzstan.  What happens in the village of Mogila, in the municipality of Kirkovo?  Since there are events in several places in Bulgaria that are remembered,  where there are clashes between the militia, between the soldiers, between armed men,  whatever they may have been, from which part of the peaceful population they may have been.  But one of the events that are most often remembered and noticed is the village of Mogilene,  not in the village itself, but in its surroundings,  the municipality of Kirkovo.  If you imagine the map of Bulgaria,  it is somewhere closest to the border with Greece.  In fact, many of those who go to sea in Greece  often pass through there.  This is very close to Makaza.  These are actually beautiful picturesque places in where it is very pleasant to walk around.  And while you walk around you can see a big stone fountain, which is named after a Turkian.  You can see it on the screens.  Turkian is the name of a little girl is Türkiyan. She was a 18-month-old baby.  She was in the protest day, which took place in this exact place,  where the fountain was raised.  She was tied to the back of her mother-in-law Aisha.  She was Aisha herself.  She was part of thousands of people who gathered from different villages,  I will tell you why in a moment, in order to ask the authorities for their passports back.  They believed that this issue could be solved. They had an extraordinary trust in the authorities.  But Aisha was beheaded by a cartilage. They shot with a shotgun because all the wounds later were around the ribs and the ribs.  The baby on the back was taken from the head by the corns.  Therefore, there are testimonies of people who were in the line,  in the line that later still took people to the nearest hospital,  there were injured and killed.  I met a 19-year-old woman who was in this line,  and as a man she was one of the injured, he survived,  who told her feelings of the time and constantly repeated,  look how stupid I was.  We were told that the bullets were haphazard and we believed in this.  And I see that there is blood under my man's body  and look how stupid I was.  Instead of caring for him, we say,  hey, the haphazard bullets are also powerful,  look what they can do, they are not completely safe.  These were not fake patrons, they were real patrons.  People from the close border troops have been shot against them.  People from the Ministry of Internal Affairs have been shot against them.  Why were people there? This is very interesting.  They protest, but it is clear that they did not know what to expect.  On December 26, two days after the beginning, what do people protest against?  They protest, they do not protest.  This word really upsets us, because it is from today's times.  And then the word arises for us to gather and ask them what they think they are doing.  They are just worried, there are no events two days earlier.  They just see that there is a lot of army and militia.  They hear rumors that someone in a neighboring region has changed their name. This is exactly the same process that has been going on for months before the next evening.  Someone has changed their name somewhere and now it is not up to them to take the name.  And they decide that they have to talk to the authorities and they are looking for a conversation with them.  They do not protesting against anything.  Their protests begin when they see that violence is real.  And when they see the killed, then they start to shout murderers and these peaceful meetings, so to speak, grow into a riot. The biggest riots that have happened in communist Bulgaria after the fall of the Democratic opposition in the mid-1940s.  You said a while ago that the collection of passports, that is, purely technologically, is this how this process is going on? and militiamen in the village, and they pass by the houses or tell everyone to come to the council  and collect people's passports, after which they return them with new names.  In Mevere, I again urge people to imagine  that you are Mevere and you have to do such a task,  to get out of the way.  They conduct Mevere together with representatives of the party,  of the Komsomol,  note that this is not a single action, this is a single decision of the Bulgarian Communist Party,  but the execution is not a single one in any way.  It is not only imposed on the MWR.  A lot of people from very civil institutions participate in this.  We can say that even back then. On December 23-24, 1984, they gathered in the People's Councils, the local government structure, representatives of the party, the Komsomol, the National Front, I understand these are unfamiliar words for many of our young viewers.  The only possible farmers organizations at that time,  these were the TECES-10 and agricultural complexes,  the directors of factories, the directors of enterprises,  all of this was gathered in the middle of the night and in the middle of the night they decide how to act.  Their initial intention, this is the reason I came here,  their initial intention is to act like this, they build logistics.  They pass through the villages, take people's passports,  bring some machine guns, put them in the town hall  or in the police station or in the police station. After that, they call the people and tell them to choose a name and they will write a passport.  Because they are told that there is no way to issue a passport to a place in the village and in the city in such a quantity,  they decide to issue notes. This note is issued to the provider,  who says, how are you, and inside is written the new name.  They actually leave with this note instead of a document for identity.  This is their plan, the plan of MEVRE.  This is just a plan.  What I have heard from witnesses, participants,  who suffered from these events,  is that there were different models of work, probably in different settlements.  Some people had a list of allowed names.  That is, choose the new name from this list, where there are, let's say, a few dozen names,  all of them sound Bulgarian, Slavic, Christian names, and you have to choose.  Many of the Turks chose the first letter.  For example, if you were Denis, you would have chosen Damian.  But in some places, they didn't even have this choice.  How was it in the region we are talking about?  The region we are talking about is Kyrgyzstan.  I have heard this story, but it happened in very few places and only in the first two days.  When MWR still did not know that it was about to face a real riot.  We are talking about a riot that has been going on for several days, which was absolutely brutal and in which more than 11,000 people participated in the recognition of the MRE.  There is no such thing as the communist state had been hit with before.  So, I go back to the technology of name-taking.  Now, they very quickly understand that people are in different moods in different places and that this plan cannot be kept.  And for this reason, in more than 80%, this is an approximate number, I cannot prove it with any statistics,  but from the conversations with people and the data of the MWR itself, I have left the following impression that in more than 80% of the places in the Karadželijski district,  things have been forced to happen in a different way.  First, the rebellion on the square was stopped by shooting, by releasing water from the fire-burning cisterns.  This reactive system, I don't know what it was, for spreading the crowds, and I have described it, I do not know what exactly it is about,  but in all cases it is used in the city, for example, Mumchilgrad, and it is not used in such more difficult places,  such as the village of Mogilyane, where is the village of Mogilyane, where the Yurkian river is located.  Then they have moved on to poetic processes, by taking names, that are expressed in the following way.  I see you, I catch you on the street, I take you to the place we separated,  where there are two most important people who stand in these places, in the farm, or in the school,  or in the police stations, are the machine-workers.  They are the ones who have to work out the documents.  They force them there.  In most cases they do not ask you at all what you want to say,  because there is no time for a conversation.  This is a direct backlash.  A direct backlash in the framework of which the repressive will of the state is imposed.  This is expressed in what is call Ahmed, you are already an angel.  And a document is issued.  Only in this way can we explain why there are  a lot of cases, I would say there are thousands, thousands,  in which one and the same family has different family names,  because they were caught.  The word caught is used in the case of the NMEVRE.  We will catch them here, we will catch them there, so they do not escape, so we catch them.  They speak about these people as presumed criminals.  And so, something that I have also heard from conversations with people in these regions,  that the family tradition is being violated.  For example, if the grandson was baptized by his grandfather and the granddaughter was baptized by her grandmother,  the new names no longer have such a coincidence. In fact, the grandson is no longer baptized by his grandfather.  Yes, that's exactly what happens. But now, to warn our readers, our viewers, Our viewers are mistaken that everything that was supposed to happen, happened in three weeks and then we will hide from the authorities and nothing will be done to us.  It is not like that.  MEVER has considered the full appointment of citizens until March 31 next year.  That is, in three months and six days, they have  appointed 840,000 Bulgarian citizens. This does not mean that they will change your  passport. There are researchers who have counted the number of personal  documents that have been changed and this is something that is done in the next year.  The number of these documents is 19.  I forgot the name of the researcher I'm sorry for.  19 documents in which your name can be written.  So these are the parties for the current, the parties for the steam, for water, these are the parties for electricity, for steam, for water, for the notarial acts, for the driver's books, for the student notes, for the diplomas, for the teacher's diaries.  The doctors are forced to destroy the medical boxes because they cannot change them with the new name and so the story of the illness of these people disappears.  There are 19 cases in total.  And now, let's jump a little further, there is a moment when the regime of the living falls, the names are returned and so on.  And then the question arises in front of people, this is already the 90th year, how does all this return, how is it restored?  In the meantime, when the names were taken, something else was done.  The tombstones of many places were destroyed, the tombstones on which the Turkish names are written. That is, the purpose of...  If we were judges in a court process today,  we would look for the ultimate goal of this entire event.  What were the goals?  The goals were to treat a minority.  That was the goal.  All their actions show that there was a plan,  that there was a line of command responsibility, that is, a hierarchy, that there was a command responsibility,  that is, a hierarchy that was laid down for the command and there was a plan.  These are the three main conditions for a war crime or crime against humanity to be discussed.  In Bulgaria, such a thing has never been investigated.  Do you have any data? You mentioned a moment ago that 11,000 people participated in the protests in the Kyrgyz district at that time.  According to MEVERE, the number of victims, the wounded...  Yes, but I will now make it difficult to reproduce them, because since then I don't remember well.  I think that seven people were killed in the area of Kyrali, seven people were killed, including the little one, Türkan.  However, in her medical record, the gender is changed, but she is left with the name Türkan.  But there is a murdered man there, who is called Musa.  And this Musa is registered with his new name, if I'm not mistaken, Mitko, and it says that he died of double-sided bronchopneumonia.  These documents were also replaced.  I told you how municipal employees, factory managers, enterprises,  APK, Tech is the Say and so on,  and so the peasants of the small settlements gathered and they knew very entered the death and birth certificates in the municipality  will not obey the order to enter the false cause of death.  For what reason were these things entered with the origin of another person?  She does not know who I spoke to her, she is the one who told me.  We mentioned the name of Y Turkish people several times. In the place where the 18-month-old baby was killed, a Turkish fountain was built five years later.  This fountain is a political symbol, a place for political events.  That is why we offer you a very short tour through the last 35 years to see several political statements.  Very short, I promise you. In the next 35 years we will see some political statements.  I promise you that in the 90th year, only one year after the fall of Todor Zhivkov from power,  Bulgaria has already had a parliamentary party representing the Turkish minority,  which was largely born as a result of what the communist government calls a revolutionary process.  You know, it is about the movement for rights and freedoms.  Recently, in the Facebook group, I support Ahmed Dogan, a video was published from the discovery of this monument on December 26, 1990,  in the village of Mogilane, Kirkovo municipality, and the first political statement from this place of the founder and honorable chairman of the DPS Ahmed Dogan, who then  said that the road to Europe passes through this monument and even then he put the story  with Türkan in the center of the political value system of this party for years to come.  Let's see it.  the political value of this party system for years to come. Let's see it.  Different parties and forces claim either for the time,  or for the land, or for the homeland as a whole.  We have no such claims, because we have the most important thing,  which is a co-existence with Europe.  This means that the road to Europe must pass through your hands. Otherwise we you far from the European civilization.  Every year on December 26th there are memorable events here. I can use this word, they were privatized naturally over theristo Ivanov, the founder of Da Bulgaria, to build a beach in Rosenets,  on the summer residence of Ahmed Dogan, when an attempt was made to oppose the protesting Bulgarians against the model that Dogan politically represents. They were brought with buses, hundreds, maybe even thousands of representatives,  voters of the Movement for Rights and Freedom.  An attempt was made to create a kind of protest against the Bulgarians and the Turks.  A few months later, I remember that Hristo Ivanov went there to mark this event,  but in general other politicians don't go there.  I will briefly turn one more year forward.  In 2021, the then president of the DPS, Mustafa Karadaya, is in this place and says in the right text what has actually happened,  but no one has called him, maybe, that exactly the Turkian and this place, the Turkian Cizma, has become a symbol of the victims of the communist regime. Let's see it.  Tyurkan became the symbolic image of the victims of the communist regime  and from the terrible events of the 70s, 73rd year, and from the terrible events of the 75th, 6th, 82nd, 84th, 5th years, Turkey is a collective image of the He was the chairman of the parliamentary group, he was the candidate for chairman on 26th December last year, 2023.  Somehow, everyone expected what happened to happen.  He also went to the event of the memory of Türkan Cesma and said something that we will talk about later.  Here is what Peevski say then? When I came here, I went to the grave of Malka de Tjurkan, where I was very worried, because my brother asked me if there would be punishment for what happened. We are still looking for punishment, which means we have a lot to do.  The atrocities of the totalitarian regime are not punished yet.  Which means we have to work on this topic, because this evil should not be unpunished.  Now we continue the conversation with the journalist Tatyana Vaksberg. We will return to the question of punishment and remorse.  But now to the concept of the renaissance process.  How did these two words come together?  Before we get to what we are talking about at this moment,  the victims and the Turkish plague and so on. Before we get there, there is an evil propaganda campaign in the Bulgarian society, which started in the late 70s, but I will forward to the article of Stefan Dechev, published on the website of Free Europe, where it is described who these historians are and what they do exactly.  We will put a link to these and other similar articles in the description in YouTube. really useful and really important, they publish their researches,  a significant part of which is false, the other part is factologically true,  but with completely arbitrary conclusions.  Let me not be the one who evaluates them professionally,  that's why I'm sending it to historian Stefan Dechev.  But what is said in these studies? That in fact there are no Bulgarian Turks in Bulgaria at all.  There are no such people. These were Christians, Bulgarians, who during the Turkish slavery  were strongly involved in the Muslim religion. And then an term appears, which gradually makes its way into Bulgarian propaganda,  and that is the last Bulgarians of Mohamedan.  Propaganda and documentary films are being produced about how in some villages,  I am talking about a completely peaceful time, no name is given yet,  in some villages some people discovered their true roots,  they were Bulgarians, now they will change their names.  But here it is about changing names, which are done voluntarily,  it is actually under the influence of this propaganda,  which are done voluntarily and which are filmed, shown,  until the moment when people started to accept the lie as a fact.  This is with all pure Bulgarians.  I mean Bulgarians ethnically, of course they are Bulgarians,  in the sense that they are Bulgarian citizens, so only the people who listen to us today with the brain of the democratic year 2024  will not hear us with our ears today, I am talking about the terminology of the time.  Many people are starting to get used to the fact that there is such a process  which is historically complicated, millions of levs are being separated from the Politburo,  from the state, of course,  in order to popularize  these things, to carry out some excavations,  some field research and so on.  This is opposed by  several young, not only young,  Bulgarian historians of the time, who were completely marginalized,  and the path for their career was only discovered by those who had done the survey.  On this subject, one more part of this propaganda, in 1984, it starts talking about how this population  is actually being revived.  It discovers its Bulgarian roots later.  And this sounds, naturally, in quotes,  for the hearing of that time, when in January  1985 Georgi Tanasov,  a member of the Politburo, says,  we call this process a renaissance process.  Now, this name, renaissance process, is a pathological, scandalous pathological term,  which is given as the name of a process of five years of violence.  The five years are from 1984 to 1989, when Zhivkov fell.  But we have to say for our viewers that this is not the only play with the language  that was performed at that time. So, literally two or three hours ago I remembered literally two or three hours ago what it meant to them to not allow excesses.  Because if we listen to this today, the Minister of Internal Affairs says this, and his subordinates,  if we listen to it today, it means to prevent someone to fight with someone or to commit some kind of violence or, I believe, to take some kind of violent action.  But no, it turns out that they actually have a pretext, as the Minister later says, here, let me read it to you. I was with the friend Zhivkov and the word about renaming came to my mind.  He paid attention to the fact that we should not allow excesses and kill people.  We can find ultra-fired nationalists to kill our people, to set a precedent to be used by the West and Turkey.  Wait for us to translate what he actually says.  Ilyas Chetodor Zhivkov says that we need to prevent the possibility  of people from the Turkish community to commit violence against the local authorities.  That is, the command not to allow excess is actually the exact opposite.  There is a exact opposite.  Act with all the power you have to prevent the Bulgarian Turks from doing anything against the government.  I have a very important clarification.  You mentioned the process in which many historians participated, but other historians did not participate, they somehow opposed each other.  But this is in the field of historical science.  That is, no matter what results the historians have achieved, true or false, proven or not proven, this is somehow another topic.  No matter what results they have achieved, they to justify the violence of changing the names.  You can come with some documents and prove that you have a Chinese origin, but this doesn't mean that the state must force us to change all the names.  There is a huge difference between the two. One cannot lead to the other. One only helps the other. It is very good that you are clarifying this, because we should never let go of the view of who is responsible for what has happened.  There is a pyramid of power, there is a hierarchy of responsibilities. At the top of this pyramid stands a man called Todor Zhivkov.  And if we go down the line, we will reach the members of the Politburo,  the party-state that actually makes decisions,  and we will reach the top of the Mevere and maybe the Army,  this is a separate topic, which is then led by very specific people.  In this sense, if today we were judges in some kind of process, our first attention would be directed, of course, to the politicians who have taken this decision? I think we owe our viewers to mention two things.  Of course, the question of responsibility, which we leave at the end,  whether someone has carried some responsibility.  But what role do the terrorist attacks, for which the Turks were convicted, have?  I will only remind you that on 30 August 1984, a few months before the beginning of the so-called revival process,  a bomb was blown at the train station in Plovdiv. A woman was killed, 42 people were injured.  And at the same time, a little later, on the same evening, a bomb was blown at the parking lot in Varna.  Two people were killed and 9 were wounded.  On the same day, in a hotel in arrested and sentenced for these terrorist attacks.  However, all these cases were not investigated after the changes, when we could expect them to be investigated without any fear and legally.  Some people were quickly sentenced and executed.  And the question remained, what is the role of these attacks?  Two before the start of the change of names and two after.  I will start with something that is shorter.  The two attacks, which were carried out after the name change,  were investigated by the journalist newspaper Trud Nevena Giurova.  The investigation was published in 1994 on the newspaper's pages and it was said that the perpetrators were close agents of state security. I have not dealt with these explosions, but with those that precede the violent assimilation in 1984.  These are two explosions in Plovdiv and Varna, which erupted on August 30, and which have a great significance for the entrenchment of the police and the army afterwards.  What do I mean?  I mean that when two attacks are made in a totalitarian state,  this is not something that happens every day.  This is an extremely rare phenomenon in such a controlled environment.  The first thing that impressed me was that in the weekly meetings that Mevera sent to the Politburo about what had happened in the country,  literally before the disaster of the inter-village road, the first meeting, which was after these attacks, the attacks were not mentioned.  They are not mentioned at all. In the second one, they mention absolutely everything. After I read a lot of things to check what was happening with the investigation of these attacks,  I finally reached the final conclusion.  Attempts were made. MWR is calling for this to tell its subordinates that they must strengthen the security in villages and towns,  so that this is not allowed to be reproduced further. This way they send to many places in the country the reinforcement of the division of Mevere.  What is the surprise, however, when a person sees where the increase of the number of militia in Varna and Plovdiv, sorry, in the two affected places, but there is a terrible amount in Rodopi.  In Rodopi, in the villages, there are strange orders, and there is a terror, do not chase each other.  Or at least they do not attack sheep in the villages.  They attack because of the big cities where there are many people. In short, this story has driven me to the Kyrgyz district.  A lot more people, even though we are in a peaceful time,  a lot more people and equipment than there was before the attacks,  without any suspicion.  And when I finally get to the next evening, It turns out that the new parts that were sent only come to support the already doubled number of forces in the area.  And the last element I want to say about the connection which the investigators report to the minister.  The investigators do their job, they interrogate witnesses, take fingerprints, collect evidence from these attacks and in general, most of the work is done in the first days.  From here on, a big fight begins, they can't find a culprit, that is, There is no progress in the consequences.  But suddenly it turns out that in each of these meetings the minister gives them instructions on how to act next.  Instead of telling them that they haven't checked what they are, and that they should collect some evidence,  he starts telling them who the most probable perpetrator. He tells them that these could be some foreign organizations that have a stake in our country.  That's what he said back then.  Then he lists some external factors and suddenly he mentions the Bulgarian Turks.  Why the Bulgarian Turks is not very clear. These subordinated, according to the Minister, culprits or potential culprits, potential perpetrators of the attempted attacks,  their order changes without any changes in the investigation.  And we end somewhere in February 1985 with an order to investigate the Bulgarian Turks in the first place, not something else, and in March to a statement that we are not making a difference between terror and the Bulgarian Turks.  This is an approximate quote. The Minister of Internal Affairs says, if we can show him his face, colleagues.  Dimitar Stoyanov, who is a minister from 1973 to 1988, almost to the end of the communist regime.  And he says a sentence that I quote by memory, sorry if it is not very accurate.  We fight against the Turks and the terror without making a difference where one task ends and where the other one begins. So the word terrorism, taken to the Bulgarian Turks,  purely on a linguistic level, is his work.  Dimitar Stoyanov, the one you saw in the video.  Since we have just a few minutes,  very quickly, after the names have been changed for 3 months and a few days, almost 5 years passed, in which it was forbidden for the Turks to use their mother tongue in public places.  The change of personal documents continued and so on.  And so protests in May 1989, the so-called May events, when they started protesting for their rights.  At the end of May, Todor Zhivkov said that the gates are open and urged Turkey to open its borders.  Turkey opened them and Bulgaria killed over 300,000 people in Turkey.  However, the end of the regime is coming and the big question is why 35-40 years from the beginning of these events,  later, no one has answered this question?  If we can, we can answer this question in a few minutes.  We can answer this question in a few seconds.  This is because the problems we are talking about today, which exist in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office,  are not from that day, they are not related to the names of several chief prosecutors who have been in charge in the last few years.  This is a long-term process that has lasted for decades and the 1990s are no different from the present day in terms of impunity. The accusation of the perpetrators, which we now call the  crime of the perpetrators, having in mind that the Prosecutor's Office  is now the Prosecutor's Office, is the sentence we say today,  but then we could say the same thing about the crime of the  perpetrators, taken to the Politburo. The case of the  incitement, as it is called in short, the case of violent assimilation, did not reach anywhere. In addition to not reaching anywhere,  the accusation was formulated in an absolutely perverted way.  These shots we just showed with exiled people,  who are over 320,000 with safety,  all the shots we showed show the consequences of a horrible crime called deportation.  This deportation has never been investigated. There are documents with signatures and fingerprints of people who have lived to this day.  This has never been investigated by the Bulgarian prosecutor's office. Who did their persecution?  There are documents about this. They received them in the 90s.  They saw these documents with their own eyes, under them, I understand, the prosecutors.  And they have never done anything about it.  And so we come to the year of December 24.  This year, 2024, is 40 years since the beginning of the communist Bulgaria's attempt to heal the Turks.  Thank you very much to Tatyana Vaxbury, that we were together in this issue of The Big Question.  If you found the topic interesting, share this issue, send it to some of your acquaintances, they will surely learn something new.  Subscribe to our YouTube channel, write you can write Free Europe and subscribe if you find it more convenient to listen to our conversations.  You can look for the big question on Spotify, Apple Podcasts or YouTube Podcasts.  Thank you for being with us. Happy holidays and don't believe everything you hear.