 The Radio Theater. On Sunday at 4 p.m. The village of Svinsko Meso The village of Svinsko Meso The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso  The village of Svinsko Meso The village of Svinsko Meso When Ilya Sandanski first visited the village, it was a sensation.  But now the population eats pork.  This is a testimony of the 1970s,  when the bulls were renamed in Bulgaria. The Radio Theater presents  The name, your name.  The name, your name.  A radio play by Silvia Choleva. The The The The The The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The The The The The It happened that I still can't write to you.  My life was such that, like most people, I didn't do what I wanted.  And that in itself is a great misfortune.  But things didn't always look like this.  Do we know how we look in the eyes of others?  And how we look in our own eyes?  Honestly, I'm not sure that today's situation, how I live now, after a while, will not be more oppressive than it was years ago.  The opportunities and freedom in our world are hard to bear  to trust them with a light hand and heart.  I was a little bit worried.  But let's move on to the question.  Now I found some peace and sat down to write you an answer.  I've thought about it for many monotonous days.  I've written letters. I did it in those years, I'm not so sure about anything anymore.  How strange it really is.  How the youth is filled with the clarity of the solution,  categorical in the way itness, the stubbornness.  After time, everything changes.  After that, we become more and more insecure.  In ourselves and in the world.  Somehow we manage to understand that.  We're still trying to figure it out.  I got my address.  Years later I got it by accident.  By accident.  You know, now everyone contacts me via the Internet.  And the mailboxes are filled with advertisements and notes.  That's why I was so surprised when I found your letter in your box.  I could have found it easily.  The same one, the one with the box at the entrance, which you remember. A while ago I was in Odessa in Deleno, just to find a frog with its broken key and almost hanging on a panty-bag.  A box in which the children often leave a frightened frog or packages of waffles and croissants on them, for which they don't care.  I'm just a little afraid they leave something more disgusting.  That's how it is when you're alone and defenseless like me.  Every time I check it, I first blow the end of my cane under my brother's.  And then I take out whatever is there.  I look at the corner of the column and I put in one.  Carton, a pocket, the unnecessary.  I understood everything that the cleaner at the entrance will throw out later in the bucket for the book.  Yes, imagine, we have a cleaner. The entrance cleaners were thrown into the bin for the The town was destroyed by the bombings during the war and then rebuilt in the difficult years after it.  Dear friend,  you know how hard it was for my parents to live through all this horror.  Do you know how hard it was for my parents to live through all this horror? So that they don't get hurt, even though  today, due to the worst of the earthquake, we can all end up in the ruins of the house.  But aren't we all, too, under our own ruins, erased from the impossibility to live normally,  from our past,  from the uncertainty that awaits us.  In all cases, we are even more hopeless.  Just that I am crying for you,  at a stage that you must have lived so much, is of no use.  Your life must have been very difficult, too. And you had difficulties.  And that's why I realized before this letter, which I barely found in an old teacher's notebook, I threw it away, who knows why, at home.  I found a few more.  My last pages were written out and I threw them away,  so I use them for something.  I save them in recipes.  I often record them from the TV culinary show,  which I watch every day.  But I've never tried to taste what would happen if I said I would cook something like that.  Honestly, I prefer to make my own dishes, as my grandson tells them.  I remember them from my grandmother and my mother.  I have very few recipes. Tradition is important in a dish.  Then it keeps the taste and the skills of the generation before you.  Something that is difficult.  It is very difficult to change it for something better.  For something tastier.  I will never forget.  Ah, the cuckoo that was cooking for me.  My mother always wanted to be better and she added spices that changed the taste.  How nice it is to taste something familiar, loved,  which reminds you of home, of the warmth of the family.  It's so rare.  I mean the warmth.  I've almost made the whole taffeta from broken leaves, written with new recipes.  Maybe someone will decide to try them.  That's why every day, exactly at 9.30 in the morning, I sit in front of the TV.  And without that, I have done my little homework, which I have as a wife.  I always watched you do your homework in the morning, my mother said,  so that you have days for something else.  There was a more meaningful plan from home,  which is exhausting and overwhelming,  but it has to be done. There is no way.  Now, when my years have passed,  there is no one to clean, to cook.  I hate this cooking. I have no one to clean, to cook for.  I hate cooking.  It takes so long to lose.  And the flour... I worked hard today, tomorrow will be the same.  I'm a girl, I rarely come for someone,  and then I ask myself, and so on.  If I have to think... I rarely came across anyone and I was asked again. And so on.  If I may say so myself,  how many hours of my life have I spent rushing, cooking, washing my clothes,  starving, shopping,  the stupid things of life.  But I've fallen back again.  When we can't express our pain, we talk about such things.  For life it's pointless.  For pain it's a dominion. The pain is gone.  My table, my friend, is right in front of the TV. The big one.  The one you love.  The one you remember for sure.  But his seat was too short.  The blanket and the material were too thin.  A neighbour with a good heart  had to cut.  By measure I cut a piece of cloth  and to sew it.  And I dried a head,  which I filled with old pieces and churro-pugashnits.  So now I can sit for a long time  and feel comfortable while I watch the program.  As I understood, I started at 9.30.  I was writing down the recipe and I put it in a nylon envelope.  After that, I watched only two episodes.  One in the morning, after which I had lunch,  and the other one at 6.00.  When the day had passed, it's time to take your seat again.  If you wonder if I'm not cold, because I've been sitting for so long, I'll tell you the truth – no.  I have a beautiful shawl, which I've been weaving for a few years now.  The thread is pure wool, Icelandic. My grandson gave it for a few're here. The room is so warm and warm,  with beautiful squares.  Sometimes, when I have time,  he comes to see me.  Of course, not very often.  You know, these days  other children are faster,  but there is still time for guests and visits.  What else will he learn from me?  I can only feed him with chocolate, which he keeps in case.  Sometimes I eat two pieces of it, while I watch the news in the evening.  For relaxation and for the salad.  To tell you more, I love movies.  The news is straining me, it scares me.  The news are straining me, they scare me. And I keep thinking how I will spend a month until retirement,  where is my grandson, have they picked him up alive and well,  if any thief will ring the doorbell,  I will open it and see what happens.  Or a fraudster will call me on the phone and tell me something,  and then he would fix it.  I'm not young anymore.  My hair has almost fallen off.  I'm going to get my hair done tomorrow.  I've found my own way.  I'm not the woman you remember.  My hands are bruised, my veins are swollen.  I'm tired, I want this and that to be over.  Time is running out and My knees are spinning.  I barely move.  It's good that it's a cane.  I don't like it. I hate it.  I made it, but it's my only and most sure resistance.  If you see me somewhere now,  as I'm sitting and writing,  will you recognize me?  Surely not.  Life gives you whispers in your youth, and then you take it.  I have to take it.  The politics they talk about on TV, and the sports, I'm afraid that a lot of sports give,  I'm not interested in that.  That's why I watch movies.  The same is with culinary shows on all channels.  My grandson decided to pay me every month  my cable fee on TV.  And so I got myself many channels,  three or four of them at most.  Even the sitting in a comfortable chair and the endless curiosity  help me when I'm sick to watch whatever it is.  I've written so many recipes that this life won't be enough  to be fulfilled and fulfilled.  And let's not talk about the movies.  Until one time I was wondering who plays the main role.  As well as some second graders who have impressed me.  Who is the director and since which year is the film?  After that I die.  Now I sit and watch only.  Serials, movies, some shows, programs,  as much as I can, and I turn off the TV remotely.  Very comfortable.  A slap and that's it.  After that I sit down. Then I leave the chair on the table or on the table, depending on the weather.  I laugh.  My left hand is twisted and I just look at the dark screen in which this whole picture is reflected.  As if I was watching.  I am sitting in the TV.  I can even imagine how some movie ends.  I've slept through the end or the phone is off.  The neighbor came to ask if there was warm water or it was cold.  Just to get in and sit down a little.  Then I think about the hero. All good things.  The victims are whether they were killed or recovered,  saved by a miracle and so on.  It goes on like this. Sometimes I say to myself,  that's why I stop the TV and stand in the middle.  The important thing is in the head of a person.  What is it? What do I think?  Do I think? What is it? What are they thinking? Are they thinking?  I have almost no one.  That's why I got so angry when I received the letter.  And then someone wrote to me. He remembered me.  I didn't think he could be here.  I didn't expect it. I was desperate, I was used to it.  You know, actually, there's no way you know.  I've been putting it down for so many years and I can't see what's written.  Without them, I took the letter from the box,  as I opened the door carefully, and and then I grabbed it with my hand.  I was burning with impatience to understand the name and  I tried to read it in the dark, but I was in my bag.  I don't carry it with me when I go to the market,  so that no one will steal it from me.  Times are so terrible that even in the middle of the day  I can steal your bag. But it's only on Sundays.  When I go to the nearby church to hear the service  or if I'm invited to a party,  some of my little friends have stayed to visit me  for the afternoon tea or just to go for a walk, if the time allowed.  I carefully puked with one hand the letter in the pocket of my vest,  with the other hand I healthy squeezed the bag with the products and with both hands,  the last ones maybe for this autumn, which happened warm and long,  full of vegetables and fruits on the market.  Then I went inside.  The closing of the entrance door became almost a ritual.  I wrapped the key twice.  I checked in case the door was really locked and the boots broke.  It didn't take long for me to realize that the cross would hurt me if I had to stand for a long time and untie it.  and to untie it. That's why I left the bag on top of the shoe closet  and then I carefully took off my hat.  There are no more hats.  There is no more shop where they can just  clean your felt hat.  That's why I was very careful.  I sat at the table in the lobby  and even then I took off my boots,  put on my shoes  and I did it gradually, not suddenly,  but carefully, as the doctor told me.  The letter was lying in my pocket all the time. But until I got up and sat down to open it, I was afraid who could write to me.  Most likely I said to myself, since there really is no one to sit down and write a letter to me,  this is me, some bill for unpaid water, I'm in debt.  Because I call and pay so much attention to the phone,  I don't know how much I water, I'm for steam.  Because I pay so much attention to the phone, so they don't stop.  I'm saving, for example, this month the water, the other the steam.  Small tricks. So things are regulated.  When summer comes, I manage to pay everything by autumn.  I tried to remember if I had already paid all the bills, and I couldn't.  I took out the last one from the bag, put it down and read your name on the cover. THE END  If I admit, dear friend, that I cried, you will not be surprised. I hope you remember everything I have experienced towards you,  and which I have probably reinforced since I left.  I had no idea what had happened to you, how you were living.  Years passed by.  Instead of weakening, my pains grew bigger.  Even if I got stuck in the life I was living, it didn't stop.  Sometimes I still feel it today.  At a certain point I imagined  you come back, you call me on the phone  and while I was sitting by him and listening on the phone and I, while I'm sitting by the door,  I pick up the phone and I pass by.  Or you come home while I'm just walking around with a friend  and I don't care about anything.  You don't find me, the plane takes off after a few hours,  I get up and I read a note on the door handle  that I had come and I had crashed.  I imagined such things.  And it was very painful.  I suffered.  Which one hurts more?  The fantasies?  Or the reality?  Tell me. The The The The The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  If you ask me to tell you about my life until today,  I hope it will be better.  Because I will cause pain to myself and to you.  And today this makes no sense.  Soon you will pass away.  And everything will flow according to the script.  I got married happily.  I gave birth to a daughter, whom I named after my mother.  And she did the same on her side.  And now I have a wonderful grandson. A student.  I hope he will succeed in life. Maybe in his future work, which seems more normal to me, he will.  Life and success were two separate rules, which at least in my case  never met, did not make them meet.  That's why today I'm going to ask you something for him.  That's why I've been writing you letters for so long.  It's a short letter, but it's so nice.  I understand that you're really happy in Turkey.  I'm surprised that you haven't been back here for so many years.  Because those who have been back for a long time are not persecuted.  And things are very different from when I escaped you.  No one can change the names of people anymore.  You must have been so offended that you don't want to come back now  even once you've to your native place.  It must be hard.  Yes, to call yourself Zafir and to be forced to become Zafir...  It's a game. What else can it be?  When your grandmother, your grandfather and your whole family  are Turkish names, and I'm still going to be from Angelina to Ayla.  I thought to myself, what's your root?  Are you a Turk, a Maghbo, a Mohamedan?  I just loved you.  I then assumed that you didn't mention anything to to keep you from giving them away.  Or to keep me from getting in trouble.  I understand that it wasn't easy.  It was exactly like that. You know, back then I was a young girl,  I was watching the events,  the renaming.  They were only heard by the hearing,  it was far from Sofia and they were talking about  very contradictory things.  No one said that people are renamed by force.  Not just the little ones, but the families, the dead.  I have no idea what the country is like.  People have sacrificed their lives, but they didn't want to change their names.  It's a shame.  Every government should cover your shameful deeds.  Later I understood the truth.  I learned what it was like.  Somehow I realized that the name carries the fate of a person.  That it can't be changed like this because of one or the other government.  I thought about your parents in that town,  how they lived through all this,  how they felt then about the murder,  the humiliation and the fear,  and about Kapak,  you, the irreversible.  That's what I told him.  Because here in Sofia, things were presented to people in a different way.  There were even books on the street that convinced people that they were Bulgarians,  and then they were taught and so they would return to their roots.  Pure propaganda.  The Muslims themselves wanted to call themselves with a Bulgarian name and they were given signs from which to be chosen.  If they were party members, secretaries, militiamen, activists,  even teachers, they chose their names instead of theirs.  I learned that.  Ten years later, when the big tour started,  it was no longer so serious.  After a few years, it was understood that there were also fights and murders.  Some were thrown into prison.  And they said they were going to celebrate their new names.  I remembered that at that time in the cross-border  there was a question. Bulgar, Rum, Muhammedanin.  The correct answer was POMAK.  I also remembered that it was over.  I was used to the idea.  Then, in Masov, the Turks started to chase me away from here. My neighbours made me go to meetings, to protect my family from the Turks.  They said they wanted to take parts of Bulgaria from me.  Such things.  They spoke in slogans, repeating word by word  the news from the TV.  I don't love politics,  I didn't go to meetings with them.  And there was a meeting  against the Bulgarian Turks.  It was huge.  I saw it on the news  and my heart was beating.  I thought about you,  but I kept silent.  I watched Ira repeating how I was running away from these things. I was taking long queues of people by car on the way to the border.  In my room with luggage, children, old people, scared and worried faces.  I had no idea where I was.  I disappeared.  We were separated forever.  I thought my heart wouldn't listen to me,  but it doesn't now.  I have a lot of arrhythmia.  I took medicine.  You know, when the names of the people returned,  the neighbours also pretended that nothing had happened.  That they really didn't remember.  But they did.  It was painful, but life went on.  As you know, feelings have this property to be detached after a while,  and the pain to sink in and hide somewhere deep down,  until they appear again, unexpectedly, unbearably, as before.  You know, we always have a choice, even if not always the best one. I was as I was before.  You know, we always have a choice, even if it's not always the best. Maybe you've heard that other things...  At first I didn't pay attention and I almost forgot about the missing children.  Why did I pass away without telling me? I didn't know then.  I thought I would never know until I got this letter.  I had doubts. I didn't want to know.  It was easier for me.  I admit it now.  Although I didn't like writing it.  I was hurt, wounded,  and thrown out of your disappearance.  Without a trace.  I wanted to go to Triana in some way and I tried to do it because...  I closed my ears for the personal information at the beginning. And then, when the columns with the persecution of the Bulgarians and Turks entered the news,  I really felt like a master.  I felt like many others.  In unison with the propaganda, I told myself that there is a place there.  My pride was hurt.  And then a person becomes angry.  He had got tired before the start of the event.  I went and I christened the voice of my mind.  I was young, in love, left behind.  I thought that our love is more important than a name.  I wanted to forget everything.  The time we were together, the oppressive feeling that the country was going through a terrible thing with these people.  But I agreed with that, I agreed with the shame.  It's hard to lie to yourself, but I did it.  I wanted to look ahead.  My life was ahead of me.  I could guide it.  I'm sorry.  The life is passing by so fast.  I'm not sure what would have happened if I had stayed here.  I'm sure you've already lost your hair. How black your hair was!  I've tarnished my hair.  You're a light brown.  It's gone to my eyes.  I knew you'd done the only thing possible for you.  You've always been reasonable. The only thing possible for you.  You've always been reasonable. But I don't understand the magnitude of the tragedy.  Maybe I was too young.  It was more convenient for me to go on.  On the other hand, you've been so close all the time.  600 km away from the other country.  This explains why I felt I was somewhere around.  Here, next to me.  I talked to you, Stepno.  I imagined how you were getting older, your husband, your children.  I understand now that you won't have...  It's a pity, I really regret it.  I'm really sorry.  I thought that one day you would call me and keep silent, because how can you talk after so much time?  How can you talk?  It's better to keep silent.  I remembered your taste.  Your lips are delicious.  That's it.  I really knew that my feeling was not lying.  It was not lying, but I couldn't wait for you. I just couldn't.  There was no hope that something would change.  They wouldn't let me leave, nor would I come back.  I was in a daze.  To say that I fell in love and that's why I gave birth to my children  and that the point of time has passed is a bit overpowered.  Today everything looks like a TV show.  But often, under the surface of the calm lake,  there is a strange creature hiding.  It had to be done. I did what I did.  I don't regret it anymore.  For example, I was worried about you at the time.  Today I couldn't experience such joy,  nor such a strong excitement as I experience now,  while he writes to you, you deserved it.  How little are these moments in your life!  In the present years,  can allow me to turn back and say,  pardon me, to write  the highest moments  whether I have lived my whole life  because of a few reasons.  My grandson always tells me  that I open the letters to the neighbours, but I don't do it on purpose.  And these are not exactly letters, they are notes.  Sometimes I write them back in the boxes.  I open them carefully so that the letter is not on the wrong side.  I have a neighbor from the upper floor.  Damn woman!  She is a wimp.  She is afraid that I have been messing with her mail.  I don't mess in the boxes.  Because I don't see well, I read the name on the sheet.  But the light at the entrance is so weak and I read't move. I don't see well, I read the name on the sheet. But the light is so weak in the entrance, I read everything wrong.  I always read your name.  I take a nap.  And even at home I understand the mistake.  Will I ever talk to her, listen to her whisper? I'm not going home until I understand my mistake.  I won't argue with her, I won't listen to her whining. My grandson's sins that they had left me and that an old woman like me  had a hard time doing things by herself, that I'm not with everyone.  Here, exactly on these words, he will sometimes explode  and will tell her what he thinks, but...  I usually apologize honestly, but this time it's not like that.  This time I read your name out loud.  The letter from you.  I was sure someone would get it.  It started as usual.  Hello, darling.  I've started writing so many letters to you.  First on the phone, then on the paper.  But I don't have an address. I collect them in to the office first, then to the library.  I don't have an address. I'm collecting them in the closet, in the green folder.  I'll send them to you some day.  Or maybe I'll give them to you in the river, who knows? The The The The The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The The The The The Even after a smoked cigarette.  Then he blows on it for a long time. He's very careful.  When I fall asleep, he writes  with a prayer between his fingers,  he doesn't wake me up.  He just pulls it out slightly,  he takes off the sheet  and leaves me to snore. I don't believe that I just kept on reading.  I don't believe I'm reading what's written, because I know it's something personal, only mine.  But now I'm very relieved.  The letter brings back my hope that time will go back.  And on the question I started writing to you,  to ask you something,  my grandson, as he understood, is a boy.  I'm a boy and...  I'm in love again.  I'll stay, I pray. Is it bright? It's bright.  I'm watching...  ...how it's getting lighter.  The blue clouds are getting darker.  And I can barely see what's written.  Even the glasses.  I'll have to turn on the light before it gets dark.  Wait for me.  I will continue in a bit. ¶¶  ¶¶  ¶¶ The song is called The song is called The song is called  The song is called  The song is called  The song is called  The song is called  The song is called  The song is called  The song is called  The song is called  The song is called  The song is called The song is called The radio play is dedicated to the Light Memory of Malina Tomova.  You listened to The Name, Your Name. The film was produced by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria. The film was produced by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria.  The film was produced by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria.  The film was produced by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria.  The film was produced by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria.  The film was produced by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria.  The film was produced by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria. Music and production by Snezhina Petrova