The Turkish Foreign Minister Fidan is present at the talks.  The head of the MET of Turkey, the Turkish Foreign Ministry, is Kalan.  Let's put the picture with Fidan.  Colleagues, the first number. Thank you, excuse me.  Here he is in the world, like Fidan.  Yes, Kalan, who is the head of their MET, their special services, as well as the General Staff.  You mentioned the visit of Akar, who is in Sofia.  This soldier is no accident, with such a brilliant biography as a soldier and politician in Turkey.  And in any case, the topics of discussions will affect the national interests of Bulgaria  and they must be closely followed,  and more likely to be followed by what appears in the Turkish media,  because in Sofia they will hardly the details of such conversations. But I wanted to say that the Russians, one of the replicas of the Russian delegation,  we can talk, there are no problems with Kiev,  Istanbul is well fed here, they greet us well, they are very kind. I continue to be surprised at the patience of the leaders of Russia and their attitude to Ankara and personally to President Erdogan,  who is currently leading a policy that is not only pro-Western, Not only that the agreement was made for the delivery of modern planes from Great Britain,  that is European production,  not only that the so-called back yard of the Russians was set up in the Caucasus and the Caspian Sea  and it attracted the former Soviet republics, where based on the so-called Turkic countries, I often define it as a leap, because at the moment it is not known how Moscow will react.  And now I return to the beginning of your announcementals, but they also pass on their past history.  If you want the mood of the people who live on the territory of these countries, and let's not forget that millions of them live on the territory of Russia,  Russian citizens are nothing but ethnic Armenians or ethnic Azerbaijanis.  They are very annoyed when they are called Azerbaijanis.  But in Moscow there are already so many sharp demands to interfere,  including with the military force in this region,  because this is a blow not not only Russia's strategic interests,  with the transfer of this Zangezur corridor to the USA for 99 years.  At the time, by the way, Alaska was also transferred.  These gas-arbiters, as we call them, the immigrants, who are actually in charge of the market and are engaged in criminal activities in the Ossetian territory,  they start to expel them and return them back.  You know, in Azerbaijan the economic situation is not good at all. Because the response from the victory in Karabakh, when they carried him on their hands, Aliyev, was already pale.  He is now looking for other statements, of course, he opposes Russia and tries to play a geopolitical role. The only thing that matters is Turkey, and Israel. Israel is the weapon of Azerbaijan in the war that was waged against Karabakh.  I remind you that this is because of the direct connection with the battle of Israel against Iran, where you know that 16% of the Iranian population are Azeris.  And their support for the regime change in Tehran is considered,  and accordingly the role of the cannon fodder if dry road operations are imposed,  because neither the United States on the the USA will send their troops to the field,  nor Israel, they will only help them from the air, but they will find their useful giants, as we call them,  in the end, not without any knowledge, so that they can perform these operations, which are in service of foreign interests.  So, there the knot has been tied very seriously. I have no idea what the actions and reactions of Moscow will be.  For now, it is clear that the priority there is to solve the issue with Kiev, where, how, when, for example, now they are attacking seriously Odessa, Nikolaev,  and what are their final plans, or whether they have such plans, these are topics that are not discussed. Erdogan, who of course has his own internal problems,  and is involved in geopolitical intrigues and processes,  because these are processes,  I have no idea how he sees his future.  If Fidan is the one who will replace him, because there are already such speculations in the world press,  considering the health condition of Erdogan, then the vizel will become even more healthy.