759 pages about the perverted political fantasies and violence,  about the powerlessness, fear and suffering, about the economic shocks.  This is not a psycho-thriller advertisement.  This is the third study by the triptych by Rumen Avramov.  We have a diamond of academic work,  a study of the dissection of state policies towards the Turks and Muslims in Bulgaria,  at a very high price for all.  The headline and the proposed content are somewhat misleading.  They suggest a study and analysis only of the reviving process  and its economic dimensions in 1984-1989.  In fact, Avramov's investigative methodology methodology and technocratic approach would not have allowed such a thing.  The scholar Avramov is so precise and uncompromising in his academic intentions that he made detailed  retrospectives to follow Bulgaria's policy of liberation of the Turkish and Muslim communities as a whole.  The book's contribution is multifaceted and complex.  I will give only a few basic contributions.  The first contribution.  From an academic point of view, this is the most valuable collection and interpretation of archives and data, structured precisely, commented mercilessly, which we have had until now.  In the 1980s and the beginning of the 1990s, when we were writing declarations  and enlightening political texts on the revolutionary process  and in the defense of the Turks and the Muslims, we introduced certain clichés  of the type of adventurous politics, we introduced certain clichés of an adventurous policy,  criminal ideas and actions, but we especially emphasized the non-contradictory policy of  the state towards the minorities. Rumen arranged everything with his characteristic perfectionism  and it turned out that there is no more consistent state policy in Bulgaria than the one aimed at or rather against the minority.  A devastating administrative responsibility, regardless of the years, the government, the regimes, the form of government.  What we have perceived as an indiscretion is actually a systematic approval of new and new variants of assimilation,  treatment of memory, destruction of culture, maintenance of social equality.  And when all the attempts are failed, the final solution is achieved,  which in the case of the Turks and the Pamacians is displacement, displacement,  marauding, damages of all kinds.  The reader remains with the feeling that different regimes have competed which is better in the assimilation experience.  Example from page 31.  Report of the police from October 1934.  Admit, quotes, we can not make the illusion that we will someday bury the Turks alive in the country and turn them into Bulgarians.  According to Avramov, the strategic conclusion is that we should do everything possible for the Turks to become impoverished,  for the cultural and moral level to be as low as possible, and for the material and economic relations they are not allowed to step on their feet.  This is the case in the 1930s.  Therefore, as seen in the tables at the end of the book,  in the period from 1934 to 1943,  about 62,000 people were displaced.  I go back in time even further.  In the 1920s, the option for final solution of the issue was adopted  through the principle of free migration, which led to the migration  between 1924 and 1934 of 166,485 of our fellow citizens.  Not a few of them were victims of speculators from both sides of the border  and remained without anything to start from scratch here or there.  I have recorded several interviews with respondents who were children  during these attempts to settle in the late 20th century and keep their memory  for the robbery. 50 years after the realistic report of Mevera from 1934, self-confident  and convinced in the unconditional Stalinist experience, the managers of the Politburo  and the Central Committee undertake the grandiose event of the detachment of the Turkish and Muslim countries as part of the Bulgarian nation through the exchange of their ethnicity,  identity and religion and through persecution.  The second contribution is to the historiography of the countries from Southeast Europe.  All Balkan countries have tried variants of terror,  assimilation and deportation,  and even direct extermination of their different minorities.  Turkey, Greece, Serbia, Croatia,  let me not mention all the Balkan countries.  Thanks to the research of Rumen Avramov,  Bulgarian historiography has become the first and only one for now, which has collected,  edited and commented objectively on its own Bulgarian perfidious experience in assimilation  policies, in the eviction, the persecution, the reduction of large human masses from the  youth community.  Look at the stressing tables 8 and 9, where the internal deportations as a plan  for five years are called cynically-voluntarily disengaged by the Bulgarian Turks and during  the period 1986-1990 45,300 people were predicted, and until 2000, the next five years, 180,000 people were predicted.  The displaced people in February 1986 were described as sending and receiving refugees.  There is a plan and fulfillment when it is the word for people and families who have been raised and deported from their homes and villages  and interned in other parts of the country.  The third benefit is the civil one.  Rumen Avramov insists on his image of a technocrat.  He is like that and we value him.  But under his dark technocratic head, a brave citizen's heart is beating in his book is a bold citizen's heart.  An absolute intolerance to evil, which people can cause to other people.  He calls the last two chapters of his book the first deviation and the second deviation,  as an apology somehow, as if he had read it, because there are no numbers, percentages and tables, but purely human and civil contempt  from the attempts to protect the memory of 10-12% of the population of Bulgaria and to turn into  transverse and indirect partners the remaining 90%.  They make skeptics to completely pessimistic forecasts for the future, connected with  destabilization of modern politics on a global scale and the  fall of the political system and the moral and national level. In fact, he was trying  to isolate himself as a humane person in both deviations, because on every page of his  book, among the numbers, percentages, documents and decisions, the archive units, his books, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his  articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his articles, his This is a very comprehensive and full-fledged apology to our fellow citizens of Turkey and the West,  which was never made by the politicians, except for a few sincere and pitiful parliamentary speeches,  convincing declarations and a tasteless kiss on the cheek.  The fourth contribution is somewhat related to the previous three and I call it morally right.  Because with the great artistic effort and talent of Rumen Abramov we have gathered,  sorted and analyzed the main politics of the Bulgarian state institutions and the party elites towards the youth.  This book sounds like a plenary against the ruling class, regardless of the regime of the government.  It does not erase the concrete names of the people who have conceived and implemented the culprits for the huge economic and political damages committed by the entire Bulgarian nation and the Bulgarian state.  to investigate the Prosecutor's Office and the court, nor the politicians, was done by the scientist Avramov, with whom he protected the academic community,  because he reminded that we are not completely safe.  Rume is not a pessimist. I am an optimist in this case.  What inspires optimism and satisfaction for the thing is that the authors' voices and comments are the reason for the great failure, panic and fear among the authors,  that they have caught something dangerous and absurd, from which there is no easy escape. They failed in nothing but their perverse fantasies and social engineering.  They didn't identify, they didn't strengthen, they didn't erase their writing and oral memory, they made it stronger.  They didn't bring to nothing the 10% of the population, they made it economically more flexible and stable.  But the most important thing is that they didn't bring us to intolerance in order to shed their blood.  The conversations with the persecuted respondents in Turkey ended years in a row with various variations of pity and compassion.  We stepped on our feet, but how will you manage to make it happen sooner?  In fact, the great people in this dark history are our fellow citizens, the Turks, who did not hesitate at all.  They felt and helped us to feel the same compassion as the common children in a violent family.  The persecuted rebuild their lives again, but what will be the fate of the rest of the people?  Only in short historical segments of time have we had peace, because now again we are worried about the fate of our persecuted people,  when in Turkey there is an authoritarian government with an unclear future. We have lived it more than once. The ethnic politics of the communist regime and especially its most brutal form,  which has been given a certain absurd name – the revolutionary process,  have been devoted to a series of historiographical research and documentary collections.  Without being exhaustive and limiting ourselves only to the contribution of Bulgarian science,  I will mention in chronological order the research of Valery Stoyanov, Ibrahim Yalomov, Evgeny Ivanova, Alexey Kalyonsky and Mikhail Groev,  as well as the documentary collections of Veselin Angelov and Iskra Baeva and Evgenia Kalinova.  In this list, these days, the significant research of Rumen Avramov and the economics of the development process took place.  The research of Rumen is different in its specifics. Those who have  studied the problems of ethnic relations know that this is a matter that is influenced by  various factors, the key between these factors is economic. On the other hand, economic  relations also depend on a number of changes, one of which is the ethnic one. We know the history that the onset of the ethnic crisis and the economic crisis  leads to a resonance, a mixture of explosive danger, which can cause powerful destructive processes.  In this context, we have so far only with the study of ethnic relations in the period of the economic crisis, which was brought to the time directly after the change of 1989,  which was established by a team of economists led by Jordan Christoskov and sociologist Antoni Gull.  The book The Economics of the Development Process is a large-scale and extensive study  of the connection between economics and ethnic politics, when both,  by the force of their autonomous development, reach a crisis.  We have a crisis in the economic and the economic relations in 1989.  And the consequences of the creation of these two crises.  Here I will allow myself to make a comment.  There is still no unity in the maintenance of the term  of the revolutionary process.  Some of those who are with me on this issue  understand the total violence and simulation  of the communist regime in relation to the Muslims in Bulgaria.  It was carried out in a full, uncompromising  and especially active period between 1969 and 1989. of the Bulgarian Muslims, carried out in a planned, uncompromising and  actively judged period between 1969 and 1989. The basis for this understanding is that  violent assimilation is not only linked to the violence of changing names and  the identification of these names in all areas of life, which is shown perfectly in the book.  in the book, the head of the pamphlet. The foundation is as follows. The assimilation, the capital of violence, the change of identity includes repression  against foreign religions, languages and cultures and their rejection both of the life  of a separate person and of the national spiritual life, culture and education.  We know that from 1969 to 1984 the Bulgarian Turks were deprived of their right to a self-sufficient cultural and spiritual life in all their professions,  and only the names remained in the daily order of the regime's simulation policy.  Along with this, dramatic episodes of the development process and the large-scale violent names of the Pamas in the early 1970s and the Gypsies in the early 1980s,  they were partly named before, as well as the crawling naming of the so-called mixed marriages in 1983-1984.  On the other hand, there are a few of those who, under the electoral process, only understand the culmination in the assimilation policy of the communists,  when in two months, December 1984 and January 1985,  more than 800,000 people were named, as well as the consequences of the event,  including the provocation of mass research by the Sunni in 1989.  Rumen Avramov accepted this second definition,  and the core of his analysis was the period of 1984-1989.  I will go into more detail about this approach.  The book is multi-layered.  The main layer is ethno-economic.  I will choose some of the works by the authors, following their circumstances and in depth analysis,  which caught my attention. I am not a specialist in the field of economics,  and for many years I had not been involved in ethnic relations for many years, so I'm a little outside,  so in case I get involved in an area unknown to me, I'll say it.  First, the development process, including the campaigns on mass appointment and mass eviction,  is not dictated by economic considerations.  This is the main choice. Many people claim the opposite.  In fact, in this way they expose a motivation that is not true.  Exactly the opposite. The actions of the enterprise completely  neglect the economic logic. This is the choice of the right wing.  In the period of 1984-198888 the development process does not determine the macroeconomic balance,  but only generates points of tension.  3. The reasons for the change are certainly expected to be sufficient for the economy to emerge from the rails,  but the environment created by the development process has a significant catalyst effect. 4. The events of the 5th of 89  year strengthen the processes of long-term  stop-over degradation,  which is clearly reflected after the 75th year,  adding to these processes a new destructive force.  They accelerate  the final collapse of the existing economic and political  order.  What impressed me most was the fact that in the middle of 1989,  a return to the service and refinancing of the Bulgarian foreign debt was made,  when the traditional Western creditors stopped the money or expressed their willingness to give it up only with a higher risk premium.  The culmination of the economic crisis in the summer increases the risk  and is the decisive battle in the final financial isolation of Bulgaria before the end of the regime.  Even if the reflection of the problems of the crisis on the increase of the credit, there will be no doubt, according to the author.  And another very strong analysis. The mass exodus does not cause and disrupts  the natural economic relations, which give a significant boost to the decline of the economic economy.  The attack against the 10K generated a bank crisis. Theal, raw currency exchange between the population is gaining a massive scale.  This is how the price of the currency assets is formed, which is much more adequate than the official one.  The appearance of the smart, silver-converted currency is a sure indication of the appearance of an economic space that is approaching the authentic market.  And finally, the wild spirit in connection with the March  and all the other developments in the gray economy in 1979  are moving markets, injecting money and thus  they are taking the early capital accumulation from us.  Thus, the revolutionary process in its final phase plays the role of establishing the market-spot relationship.  Another very important part of the book is the analysis of the totalitarian system.  With its authentic descriptions, including passages from the meeting at the top,  quoted by other authors, but many of them as a result of his own selection of Harumen, the author gives a significant contribution to the collection of evidence and material  of the crimes of the communist regime.  In this respect, the book can be read as a textbook on totalitarianism.  The author gives us the opportunity to learn about the history of the social-emotional universe,  which is not interested in suffering caused by people.  The comparative analysis of the eviction from 1951 to 1978 is very strong, with the eviction in 1989.  Because this comparative analysis allows for a number of legalities to of the legalities in these processes.  The state preparation of the repressive machine was carefully monitored,  just before the name of the year, with all the attributes of this machine.  Increasing the inflow and inflow of goods, increasing increase of wages, the increase of money for the agency,  a lot of serious deliveries of weapons, of different types of weapons.  It has been shown that the Selvniches wave is the result, and this is a very important  conclusion, I will read it more thoroughly, it has been shown that the Selvniches wave  in 1989 is the result of manipulated movement and self-reinforcing process.  This is how the statement was established that the mass settlement of hundreds of thousands of people has the nature of criminal expulsion and deportation. Ruben Avramov is not satisfied only with the discovery of the mechanisms.  He reaches the tragic consequences on the lives of hundreds of thousands of people.  This is how we reach the third very important part of the book – human suffering.  This is the suffering of the taken identity, as well as the taken property and means of living.  Here the healthy connection with the other two studies of his triptych,  Diana Kazal is more than obvious.  In the book there are separate pages that describe the family's misfortune,  the consequences of which come from Turkey, or they are returned from the border after its closure in August.  They have been left without money, without a home, without work, without  a home, the children are stopped from school, the students cannot go to university anymore.  It is the story of several thousand families in the 60s of 1989. All this is described in  detail in the book. The people sold in the condition of forcing their homes, other people  live, they do not want go back to their old jobs,  the children have difficulties to write them down again in school.  In this situation, some of the people present here were witnesses, there is primarily an economic dimension,  but also a powerful potential for violent ethnic violence. Then it could be ethnic violence,  precisely because of the social problems that were affecting  a large part of the territory of Bulgaria, especially the northeastern Bulgaria.  The criminal deportation of several thousand people from the northeastern  and northwest of Bulgaria is described. People who return from the border, which was closed, and communist regime in the form of military communism,  this is the end of 1989.  This is how, according to the figurative words, and Roman Avramov writes,  this is how a blood-mixing combination is born, two points.  The clans of capitalism, which I spoke about a little, are moving with the last breath of the military communism,  to bring a final economic shock and a gradual collapse of the communist regime in Bulgaria.  There is another layer, for which I want to say two words, the civil one.  It is revealed in the description of the Civil Activity after 10 November,  for the restoration of the social rights of our fellow citizens.  It is also described in the book.  In a word, this, throughout the entire edition, Ruben Avramov does not hide his civic position on the condemnation of totalitarianism.  His civic path reached its maximum in the last chapter, headed by, and I will quote it, from the second half of the book, where he is anxious to say that this is a book on the co-creation of the communist ideology with nationalism.  I quote Rumen Avramov.  Or, in a word, this is a book on national communism.  I will say a few things on the Stolpanian aspect.  The book is about economics,  it is a very interesting process, but let's talk about economics.  I will also mention that it is the third study of three dedicated to medicine and problems with medicine the Bulgarian history of the Moldovans.  As a rumen in his typical style, he manages to connect all these episodes from the triptych,  even when he finds differences between them, in the case of the economic recovery process,  limited in this period, 1984-1989, he is distinguished from the other two,  from the pogroms against the Greek youth in the early 20th century and the pogroms against Jewish youth in the early 40s.  One of the reflections, which is especially important if we try to see some more general valid, gradual results of nationalist policies,  for which there are questions in the third case,  or the evasion of nationalism, even when it is not a country policy, for example.  In the third case, with the Turkish, with the Turkish process and the Turkish youth, the motive is not stupendous.  And this is exactly what the Romanian exorcist outlines.  Unlike the pogroms against the Greeks, especially in the case of Anch Jews, where outside the purely material Stupan things that happen and are touched at the very beginning,  we have the expression of the then fashionable dominant eugenics, that is, the idea that the Stupan repression against the majority is one of the ways to make it so,  to make it so, if you can say so,  by eliminating the Stupan possibilities,  it will simply stop self-representing at least fully and thus be killed eventually.  Not purely physical elimination, it is an extreme solution, further in the story, but the stoppance elimination is a categorical part of this ideology.  In the case of the revolutionary process it is not so, but, and this is very-oriented feeding of envy, stupan envy, they have a lot, countless riches,  I don't know what kind of vlogs and so on, which have been pulled out  in order to justify, of course, the huge pollution of their  human dignity and life. Of course, we have reached the traditional marauding, which we have in the third episode.  It is interesting how this episode, the last one, the last one, the last one, but we have the same nonsense in the third episode.  We have abuse, that is, violence, here it is not a question of any market exchange, of course,  violent actions in which one side is placed in a huge threat and, accordingly, it can be difficult to question a free choice, which is actually the characteristic of the market,  but nevertheless there are deals. Deals that are unprofitable for one of the two sides, this of course is the side of the state of the state, both as buying and as selling. So what they have to sell is bought at a low price, what they have to buy is sold at extremely high prices.  And, respectively, the presence of this agio and this agiotage, which in Bulgaria is often called specula, but Ruben used the word life, also very clearly in the text,  is really a basis of the way in which many people in Bulgaria decided to enrich themselves.  And subsequently they started to practice it, for me the most valuable,  the penultimate chapter, not the last two with the deviations,  but the one that actually is the pillars of the Stopan culture of transition in Bulgaria,  which can be directly traced to what is happening, especially in the summer of 1989,  as the use of separate people chaot advantage of the situation for their enrichment.  Many people decided that this is how it is enriched.  And, accordingly, they continued to practice it  after the regime was changed.  Because not a few people, really,  realized big hits,  in fact, with the Stopanokane resource during this summer.  In this sense, this third episode is very interesting, because it does not start with the motivation to do this,  to have the Stokane measurement of this whole process.  However, it is absolutely inevitable to reach all these Stopanian dimensions, which are very similar to the case in the previous two episodes,  where one could say that the Stopanian motif is one of the various motifs to happen what is happening.  In this sense, this last element of the triptych leads to the idea that there are some legalities, that can't be avoided, even if they are not a foresight  of the people who are running towards that violence.  In the end, they shine and can't be mastered.  This is the first, in my opinion, very important  topic, at least from those I want to underline. The second  one I want to underline, yes, this can really be called  a step study of National Communism or National Socialism, although for me the word is not very clear what it means. One of the things that continues to have inspiring sources is the belief that those above, those with power, can plan. Of course, during the socialist period, this with five-year plans was brought to incredible heights,  this faith, but it continues to exist today in the form of the so-called mixed economy  with all the interventionist attacks on the state's interventionist attacks. This market is something terribly bad.  God forbid, let's not let all his problems to be manifested.  That's why he needs to be regulated, he needs a wise, good, good government  to take care of this state, not to show up with bad lines all the time.  and not to shine with lines all the time. It is quite clear that they cannot plan. Even in countries where we have decades of experience with planning, people who really know what the question is about,  they are not yet competent in the field, even a person can develop the thesis that they are quite competent.  They cannot plan elementary, especially in this episode we have elementary unthoughts,  elementary predictable, gradual consequences of the actions that are taken.  For example, how can you not remember that there is a problem with the DSK if you drive out 300,000 people and they withdraw their money?  You can't not remember that. Well, you can't remember.  Not only that, but the extremely useful comparisons with the previous two waves of expulsion of the Turks,  especially the expulsion from 1968, which begins in 1968 and continues for a whole decade,  and how much more deliberately it is planned, but with much deeper prediction of the consequences,  which would be addressed including with negotiations with Turkey.  It shows a collapse of the ability of the Bulgarian socialist state's ability to plan,  which can be seen in this episode in a very clear way when the two moments are contrasted,  1968 versus 1984-1989.  The worse the plan is, the more incompetent everything is done,  the second time compared to the first. And this actually shows the whole fallout of the ability of the Bulgarian state in general,  but this can of course be taken at the level of socialism,  the ability of the socialist state to manage the processes with time. The more time passes, the less it begins to reduce its ability to manage public processes, including the state processes.  The state cannot plan, it is surprised by all sorts of things, everywhere.  And of course, then we have the general crisis of the whole socialist camp, which further weakens things,  but it is obvious that at some point they just refuse to be able to cope with the problem.  In fact, at some point, it is really almost officially recognized that things become uncontrolled. And this is in a country that claims that it can plan the life of people,  including in its step aspect, to the smallest details. A complete failure of the idea of the planning country.  And the third thing I want to stop at is precisely this transfer of the bridge to the present is not only, of course, with this it is an extremely important topic,  for xenophobia and all these plundering over the centuries in the attitude of the Bulgarians to a question of the Stopan culture, of the trends of Stopan practices and from there,  related to them, beliefs on how this thing is actually achieved, so-called personal enrichment or enrichment,  which later became especially important. For me it interesting for me to read, especially this document, again from Politburo,  I think it was from Georgi Tanah, which tells that  all in all someone describes the practices of the source of state enterprises  created by parallel and private structures, one by one,  back in 1989.  In other words, many people teach these practices, they are actually spontaneously  invented back in 1989, and then we wonder why in Bulgaria they were extremely practiced, used, because there were people with experience who saw the schemes, saw that these schemes  work, that they lead to results and then in the immobility of the first years of transition,  in which a person can easily see how almost permanently the state resource was left  immobile, these schemes are simply reproduced, of course, on a huge scale and give rise to extremely vile riches in the Bulgar of lack of choice, of not freedom, in case of extremely violent not freedom. in the hope of acting in a certain way and, accordingly, to make compromises with material things,  which they would not have done if they had freedom.  Many Bulgarian businessmen to this day can be told in detail, even those who were then 8-9 years old,  we will not mention names, they present themselves with a step-by himself as a success in this way. I succeed and win when the other side is pressed,  in a situation of lack of freedom, of the impossibility to act,  threatened by some circumstances, and then I make a deal with her.  And this is a great businessman who lives as a successful man at 33. This is a practice that RUME really clearly shows during this summer.  People are forced to sell what is their priceless,  and they are also forced to buy things they need for where they go,  and, accordingly, they are forced to buy them at an incredibly high price,  a price that, other than in Bulgaria, can never be reached.  So, if we take the dollar exchange rate as the best price, then in Kyrgyzstan and those numbers that Rumen gives 20-25 leva, in Sofia at that moment, I remember because we were back Kurdistan. So, you can see what a movement has been made. And the dollar represents everything that these people wanted to buy,  including things that they wanted to bring to the countries they go to. And, accordingly,  yes, I'm finishing. Accordingly, very, very of them. Today you will imagine that this is how you succeed.  You succeed, of course, they use the state at the moment to force the other side to be in an unfavorable situation,  or to be banned, or some under-reliable businessman to resolve the disputes.  If such disputes arise, the other side knows it, to be forced to conclude a deal with them, and they consider this a great business skill.  Obviously, this is not capitalism that creates wealth, this, they have investigated this, crony capitalism or robber capitalism.  So the creeds of this phenomenon,  which is a big problem in Bulgaria,  can also be seen in this  fateful summer of 1989.  I want to say that these three steps  actually looked at each other.  Each one looked at the previous one, increased the previous one,  added, somehow overcame the previous one or two.  But unlike the previous two, in this third moment, this second turn,  the economy had to find itself.  This is what Gogata says, this is what Misho says,  and really this is one ofata says, this is what Misho says and this is really one of the  surprises in this topic. The lack of clear economic motivation in everything that is said and  told. Everything is flooded, everything is thrown away and stuck by ideology, politics, national  certainty and these motives, these words that are mentioned in the book and in everything that is said about it,  this realistic, authentic fear of Turkey, these existential difficulties of living with a minority  that comes from a neighboring country and is connected to a neighboring country,  which is a barrier between the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the experience of eviction and the investments went to the economy. The recovery process these four years actually capsules all these motives in an  unusual way, in an incredibly intense way and everything that happened in 45 decades before that. The economy is not a common place, I will say it myself,  in the Gologi and in the Nino, in the Misho.  It is not a cause, it is a consequence.  Therefore, it is not a calculated consequence in this case.  It is a preventable consequence for those who take the decision  and it is not taken into account by those who take the decision.  But its consequences, otherwise, felt in the Bulgarian economic, social and political life during these four years.  It can be clear, I actually look at different places.  Not one price is formed, but many prices are formed, prices of this paranoia that started in 1974 and in 1989.  In fact, these are very non-additive prices, they cannot be added, they cannot be lost, they cannot be collected at the same price.  They should be viewed and discussed in the book in parallel, sequentially, as several different consequential consequences, economic consequences from this political decision.  We have the bearable initial phase of the production process, the phase of assimilation,  which also provides a very clear economic context.  For example, it allowed me to discuss, perhaps, some of the first in the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs,  which are included in the committee's dossiers, and to see how this story of the attempt to assimilate Bulgaria is written in the numerous decisions the parties and the state try to buy the loyalty of the Turks,  to soften in their vision, in their presentation, what they do,  by giving, by moving with the spirit of the community, by trying to increase in some way,  it becomes unsuccessful, in fact, the standard of living in the affected areas.  But of course the consequences are the 1989 and these are the terminal shocks for the regime in general.  In these few months, absolutely classic economic plots also appear, for example the attack attack against DSK. A subject that we learned in 1996-1997, we learned in 2014,  this is a case that happened before our eyes, and we thought that this is a subject related to some forms of capitalism.  In fact, in the year of 1989 we have a classic example of the attack of the investors against a bank and  this bank manages to withstand these years, of course, thanks to the system, the specific  system in which the DSK works for these years. Of course, there are also problems with the  external debt, which we mentioned before mentioned, and others, which are purely classical  economic problems, as the last force of this political solution. Here, for the economist,  the question is to assess how much the productive process, the political event, is a self-catalyzer  , how much without it the processes would have developed longer and longer, but the same catastrophic  outcome as it occurred in 1989-1990. And finally, this is the economic  gap. I will quote the words from Krish, this is the blood-stained mixture between the mix between proto-capitalism, the manifestation of a stichy, wild capitalism, spontaneous capitalism  and what the state does, all the loopholes of military communism it has proposed in the last months of the Zizkov regime.  Here are, as my colleagues said, the crowns of the brutality and the economic deviations of the last transition. the In fact, it was clear that the weakness of the so-called normative principles in economics,  which we all as economists agree on, was a lesson in modesty for the economic science.  It was very clear that in the context of the external, including ideological extreme situations we are in.  And it was actually seen that we are in a state of permanent alienation.  And this is exactly the connection of our events with today's events.  Because today's alienation and today's exclusivity is the return to the era of nationalism, in which local retrograde is deliberately dedicated to the West.  The former headline sends to the future, which we are in the case, a miraculous message.  The States become a rock, and Europe becomes a failed country.  In general, as Dr. Mikhailov, who is here, said, the big thing is to see that there is no good in the good.  I said good, but the big thing is to see that there is no reason in the reason.  Exactly 10 years ago, in 2001, I presented the book The Capitalism,  which was a book about the triumphing liberalism and its  misappropriation of Bulgarian conditions.  In the next 10 years, I was immersed in the economic and social hypostases of violence in Bulgaria.  I was late with the first one, until 2008. After 2008, the Liberal Party's parliamentary  council, in the day of the resurrection, was blinded by our minds and it was pressed into the corner.  And with the storm as a surprise I walked in front of the events, in front of the waves  of nationalism, intolerance and authoritarianism. I still think that these waves are temporary,  even though they were in a state of state for a long time. While we are in them,  while we are drowned in them, I think that every anti-utopia, every Orwellian and the founder of 1984 will be still impossible.  And this is the problem that is in front of us at the moment.