The event of the Event of the Event of the Events created DimaTorzok Belene. Here is a painful story of the people who were here and their loved ones. I think it should be included in textbooks. They do not know whether this part of history has entered. For me, Belene concentration camp is a memory with a lot, a lot of pain. Even now, when I look at the pontoon, it seems I see those two trucks as little bulldozers, driving the concentration camp inmates. In those moments a bullet struck me. Even at this age, that bullet always appears. Thank you. I was born on June 16, 1945. My parents were anarchists. My father was an anarchist by conviction, and my mother was an anarchist by love. I was born in Radomir, but I have spent my entire life in Pernik, I consider myself a Pernik resident. My father was arrested in April 1945 and sent to a concentration camp in Dupnica. My mother was in her 7th month, I was still unborn. Even in the family archives there is a request from my mother, in which she canvassed the whole neighborhood and collected signatures from almost all 38 people who signed a statement that my father is a very good person, does community work in the neighborhood. And on May 23 my father was released, somewhere about two or three weeks before I was born. After that our life unfolded in Pernik, the family, my father was at home, worked, started working at the Crystal factory. At Crystal factory, because he had such a characteristic of an honest person, a trade union activist and fighter, a political prisoner before, during the monarchy, an anti‑fascist, and the workers of Crystal factory elected him as the factory’s trade union secretary. A year or two later, by the director’s order, he was dismissed and on the dismissal document it was written that he was dismissed because he was an enemy of the people. I do not remember those years, I only heard them from my brother, when his students in the primary school classes chased him in the corridors and shouted “son of the enemies of the primary school” and “son of the enemies of the people.” Son of the enemies of the people. I often wondered how they triggered this mechanism. Children who do not understand what it means to be an enemy of the people, neither those who shout, nor those for whom they shout. They do not know what it means to be an enemy of the people, neither those who shout, nor those for whom they shout. They do not know what it means to be an enemy of the people. In 1948, when it was the fifth congress of the Bulgarian Communist Party, the militia began mass arrests. My father was arrested and was sent in stages to various concentration camps. He went to Kocyan, in Bogdanov Dol he was sent, there he made bricks, from Bogdanov Dol he was sent to the mine in General Nikolaev Kazarno. My father wrote a complaint to the administration. Conditions in the camp were unbearable. The food was very bad, there were lice. He deposited that letter before the administration. Immediately the administration took measures and decided to send him to Belene. And from 1949 my father was in Belene. We received postcards, letters. I remember those words. “You did a good job, I understood that you learned to read.” Congratulations! And to your grandpa I say that you have ruined your handwriting. The letter that he writes to me is in very bad handwriting. Take measures and improve your handwriting. Find the book by Senkevich, Stas and Neri and definitely read it. During all this time, two years or more, I was looking at my father’s portrait in the hall and pointing at him with a spray. When will I go to see my dad? Got it. We traveled from Pernik to Sofia. In Sofia we took the train to Belene. At that station we got off at night and headed to the school, where we would finish that night, sleeping in the school somewhere on the benches or on the floor. And we waited the next morning at such a place that the pontoon bridge could be seen. At one time we saw two trucks from the position we were in, they looked like little bulldozers moving one after another. They crossed the pontoon bridge and when the trucks stopped, the concentration camp inmates jumped out. And they started looking at the people, searching with their eyes for the respective relatives. My father was Bradysal. The moment I look at him stunned and I who have been waiting for that moment and cannot recognize him. I recognize him only when he caught me under the mice and threw me out of the air and I saw his smile, the sitting was two hours, two and a half. I wandered around, where people called me, where I went to some and many of those who called me, kissed me. I asked myself, why do so many people love me, like, somewhere someone said I have such a son like you, but I cannot see him. Then I felt a little like a hero, everyone pulls, everyone is a favorite to everyone. My father left the prison almost ruined, with many illnesses, malaria. I remember the date when he came, without telling us, my mother was sewing on the machine. We were so surprised, especially my mother, that the machine was broken, the sewing machine was broken, that from the broken she put herself without wanting the broken between the wheel and she touched the broken below. They started a year searching for work, he worked, changed his job, and we with my brother studied. Primary school, high school. It was time to apply, but they did not allow us to take the student entrance exams. All documents had to include a character. For me and my brother that character was written by the neighborhood OFO organization. My father says there is something wrong with the whole story. He takes the character, opens the character and is frightened. Enemies of the people have no significance, that the character and is frightened. Enemies of the people… No significance, that my brother Vasil is a top student, that Vanzeti is very hardworking, that top student… My father got very angry. A few houses below lived an active fighter against fascism, Uncle Stoyanchо, I know him. But a very honest man. He greatly valued and respected. My father came, they talked. He is a Marxist, my father is an anarchist. And he said, “Hey, my children do not want to study.” And his children want to study, why would they be hindered? He ordered them, wrote the character, sealed it before him and gave it to us. Then I managed to appear as a candidate for the student exam and entered the Vekhti Chemical‑Technological Institute. During that time my father was already visiting the hospitals, especially the oncology hospital in Sofia, Drevenica, he was ill with leukemia. My father died, he did not manage to live to see my engineering diploma. His burial as a person, colorful, known in Pernik, gathered about 200‑250 relatives. They are also activists, enemies, chingetas, informants. At the burial three people anarchists spoke. And the three stayed for different periods between 3 and 5 years in prison, for the fact that they spoke on my grave. My grave did not talk about the years spent in camps. Most of the time he spent in those camps was here, in Belene. I learned details about life here, about this terrible hell, I call it hell because it was hell. Mainly from his friends, inmates, who had spent many years in those camps, I learned about their life. Here is a harsh story. The death of anarchist Ivan Yondev, when the commander checked everyone what affiliation he had. Some said anarchists, others said I am a farmer and Yondev said I am a person. The commander repeated, “What are you, you are a person.” They threw him a look and one day they shot him as if he had gone to run. After his death, they said the man was killed. Does the man speak with a full definite article? The man. That is Belene. Thus the years continued. I was assigned to work at Crystal factory in Pernik. I worked there for a year. There was a new workshop for barrels. They worked 12 hours, even more. And I did not think about any scientific career, but I received a notice from my boss about the thesis. I applied to the competition and won. Somewhere I was in the second or third year as a graduate student. My mother told me, look, there is some award for you. But the set date I appear at the city council, where the candle was scheduled, I go to the curtain and exactly explain who I am and why I come. Behind me I hear a voice, come with me, I call you. I am Major Bozhilov from State Security. In your factory Crystal there is an imported machine. A glass cutting machine. And that machine is Italian and costs 100,000 dollars. And it is not known why the machine does not work, it is not installed. Help us. I heard that word very often after that. Help us! The word I heard very often after that. Help us! Dzhogariov Vasilev. Who lived during socialism and did not have a job with state security, he knows that they spread some fear in every person. And I have the same. I was afraid to refuse him directly. Yes, give you this machine, so that it cuts glass, flat glass, with waviness under 3%. Every machine has a device to measure it. And the glass in Crystal factory had waviness over 3%. I told them the things. Good, good, comrades Vasilev. And now we want another task to give you. Opposite you live evangelists, fifty‑year‑olds. And we want to know when they meet, who they are, how many, details. You want me to be a informant. It will not be. And I thought I had gotten rid of it. I changed several jobs. Electric plant. The workshop in Jabliano on electrical industry. And a competition opened at the bank for a scientific collaborator in my field. I submitted documents. No result from the bank, no call, no letter. I called the phone and asked what is happening with the competition. The documents are with the Pernik police. What is happening with the competition? The documents are with the Pernik police. Wait, I call, what do my documents for a scientific collaborator do, can I work in the MVD? No, Bozhilov is already a major or lieutenant colonel. And for the third time they gave us to offer you. You do not take the hand. Thank you, I refuse the competition. But at the same time I thought about some independence. What possibility did you have during socialism? Only one. Farming, livestock. I bought animals, pigs, mothers and looked at the preset. Even the first two mothers refreshed here, because they were not ready in the room. Horror! The chingetas came again. They told me, we come here because you are a very bad example. You are an engineer, everywhere they say you are very capable, that you are hardworking, but you became a pig farmer. I say well, but pig farming is hard. I work. Yes, it is, but others have to work. And you are not for that work. I work. I filled a very risky job. I wrote about Belya, I did not care if someone wrote it, is it not. That was the end of the 70s, 80s, the beginning. No one had written. How I finished the book, I visited it at Georgi Markov, and from below wrote the same. I had that intention. Like in the USSR and in Europe in the Soviet countries. But frankly, I was scared. I decided that I will not have fear. I cannot publish it. I will not survive in prison and I preferred the second option. To escape. And my mother, who was my first reader, said, son, once I did it, once with your father in prisons, I cannot do it with you. I will not be able. And I remembered the other option. The other is to take the manuscript and escape with it. Go away, do not run. In 88 I finally got permission to go to the border, but not to the gathering. All those few years I have studied, collected information how those people chat and go to change and how they enter. It turns out there are 10 minutes when you can enter without a document. From here I left. My mother already prepared a bouquet for health. She said with God, maybe I will not see you. She handed it. And I left. And we go to the place of the gathering. And there we all sleep, who where finds to bring rain on wet. And I split the manuscript of the book into two parts, put them here with socks for expanded veins, deni, deni, lightly with the paper it was bent. And I wait to slip in. The doors open, people rush. State Security, the militia cannot control the process. I managed to enter. And I also carried money to exchange for dollars to continue. I had already left. I left. I succeeded. If they had taken those money and the manuscript, I went straight into prison. I watched, I stood, I trembled, I decided. At two o’clock I said I will leave. They dispersed. No one, almost no one stopped. The little frame. Down, down, down. Boshilov city. I took the bus. Nis. Belgrade. Zagreb. I got off at the station. I went to the cemetery of the town. It was about 4 p.m. after lunch. I sat on a coffin. I looked like that. They collapsed. I had only seen the place on a map. I did not expect that so quickly I would reach the checkpoint. I went where the border is and I decided to wait. Two, two and something I started to pause that strip, because it was cut and somewhere around I do not know how many meters, 50‑100, everything was visible. I crawled, I crawled, I crawled. At one place I set my knees on the rope, that was the border fast. For 30 and I do not know how many I carried. 3‑4 kilometers. I sang. I sang from joy. And at one time I hear the brakes of a police car and see the lamp. The hands of the car. From above. We are ready. One night at my mother’s tourist with Vilichka. We confiscate it. They took me to Villa O Pishina and from there things went in the established order. I stayed in Italy two years, but I got an American asylum and… it is a nice day, cold, but nice sunny. I left for New York. That was between Christmas and New Year. The book went to New York, returned to Bulgaria, I sometimes ironize. This is the book that made a global trip across the ocean. It was returned twice to be published in its native place. There is a very nice philosophical phrase. It was said for the first time by a Spanish philosopher. It is, that a people who does not know its history, does not expect something good. I do not quote exactly, but above so. It is a cliché phrase, but peoples, people learn from history, so as not to repeat mistakes. And because I lived in two different worlds, here socialist, then I escaped to the capitalist and saw that there is a truth about democracy, about freedom of speech, of the press, about freedom of the individual, you have to fight daily, from morning to evening, every day. Every day. Thank you. © transcript Emily Beynon