The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The The The The The I was a young programmer in the head office of the Ministry of Future Energy.  I worked there for a while, around 3-4 years.  I lived a selfless life, programming had become a modern profession.  I had a modern profession and I didn't have a bad day. My life was getting better and better.  I was 30 years old and I was doing well.  What was the end of your life?  In 1989, it was the end of something that was very abstract at that time for people like me who lived in Sofia.  We knew that something was going on, which was officially called then,  and now someone allows himself to talk about the renaissance process.  I say allows because it is not only for Bulgaria,  the word renaissance has something positive in it, something good.  People call it renaissance, and so on. But this is exactly the opposite.  But this is the kind of thing that was a process  with the writer's pre-election regime.  I will call it that, because I accept this name,  because it was his official name to this day.  So we knew that something was wrong with the country.  We knew that there were problems with the Turkish youth, with the pomashko.  I personally have not contacted such people in my life.  I only saw the pomashko when I was in the barracks.  We heard that their names were changed.  During these times, not only did the names change on the table,  there were also lists with allowed names.  We understood that this was a kind of humiliation.  But when a person knows it abstractly, he does not realize the power of this humiliation.  In 1989, they obviously decided to reach a critical point,  that is, they becamebearable. Then the incursion began, which was officially explained as a voluntary desire of the people who do not feel themselves Bulgarians to leave the country.  Until these people in these areas were engaged mainly in agriculture.  Then there was no such action against the trampling that is still going on today, but it was obviously an operation for the arrival of the city, which today is being held, but which was obviously an operation to prevent the future of the country.  At that time, the record of the city was paid mainly to be destroyed by the Tudor Empire for this year,  and not only that, but then a call was made to the rest of the patriotic-minded future population  to help their country, which fell into such a trouble because of some predators, and to help these regions to collect the harvest.  What developed later was that some orders were released,  that is, any company, no matter what it is,  to assign people who would go to these places for 14 to 20 days  and to help with the construction work.  When we got off the bus, we were in a very picturesque hut,  where we saw the wild boars.  It was a beautiful place, with some wild boars and some sheep.  It was a very beautiful place,  and even if you were there on a vacation,  it would be very pleasant to see.  The first thing we saw in the village, which we can now describe as a Turkish village,  they were still slightly late, there were some people.  What shocked me was that we met on the bus, two or three children came,  they sat down and said, I heard something, some bread, do you have some bread?  This was quite unusual. It was a typical situation.  But then we started to follow them.  They were small people who were working for the local population.  The process was not only changing their names.  When there was a funeral, they were taking their names  to their grandfathers and grandmothers and they were still buried in Budva.  This alone shows a very big decline.  But it's the way it is.  In particular, in the work of this cemetery,  we were on the side and we were having lunch,  after some work in the city,  and I jokingly said that this work should end well,  because whoever demolishes the cemetery, they become white.  I was joking a joke.  But fortunately, our party secretary  fell and broke her head.  She fell and I broke a stone.  So,  I had to be taken to Kyrgyzstan  to the hospital.  We took a car there  and I was standing there,  because I was still traveling.  We had a good relationship with her. So I was taken to the K of the others, because we were traveling together. I met them, we had good relations, we were friends.  So I got into the Kyrgyz hospital.  This is a very important description.  In the Kyrgyz hospital, we got in a car,  some woman was waiting for us in the front, this is the situation.  The first thing they asked us at the entrance was,  Are you Turkish?  We said, not only that we are not only Turks, but also brigadiers.  They came to us.  The sister who came to us.  It was a normal process.  We were not allowed to be Turks.  They went to Turkey and they were treated there.  The whole population that was in this district for a certain period of time was completely deprived of medical care. However, the picture is like this.  One region is blocked, food and drinks are not provided to it,  medical contacts are removed until they are taken to Turkey.  This also explained the fact that initially some children did not want to go to Turkey because in some places,  despite these actions, there was a real glut, a direct glut.  The second good case that shows the atmosphere is one in which we met as younger people, as students.  It is clear that when a person has contacts with students of different sexes,  such pleasant things happen to us.  But then at some point he decided to give us a coupon.  He gave us a beer. Of course, it remained open.  We went there and there was a box in front of the store.  He said, who was the person, he said,  I don't have a beer, but he said, what are you?  We said, come on, now, father, just tell us so.  We passed by and father said, there is beer,  but there is no beer for the Turks,  and you will come here later, why not?  That is, there was, although we have not seen it publicly,  there were obvious recommendations on this issue.  What was the situation in the People were gathered in front of the Tudor embassy to spread some sort of pathological slogans.  The comrade Odov Zhivkov expressed the important and fundamental issues of our foreign policy.  The people of Sofia, the people of Sofia, the people of Sofia!  What was known in Sofia was that these people wanted to be independent, to have autonomy, and they wanted to make us some kind of a burden on the Bulgarian state,  and they wanted us to be expelled, so this was a very good policy of the previous government.  But the high-ranking officials said that these were Bulgarians. They forgot their identity, we will return their names, we will restore them,  so this was a serious process.  On the other hand, nothing, which is very interesting,  nobody cared about any logical connection here.  It was said that this was a subordination,  this was said at party meetings and at some more secret meetings,  but the idea was that those who were there would spread it. These are Turks who have fallen under the influence of the Turkish government  and their goal is to cut off part of Bulgaria.  On the one hand, these are Bulgarians who have to settle,  on the other hand, these are pure Turks who have a purpose to cut off part of Bulgaria.  There was no conciliatory nature.  The problem is that they always sought to steal from the local population, which would be acceptable.  There were people who claimed that if they went to the markets and the people, they would mine for all possible problems, future ones, possibly,  not to mention mines, and it was time for us to sort ourselves out,  and then to re-settle ourselves with the real, from this attack, so to speak.  So, that's how things were, and as I see, they are almost the same today.  There are modifications, but the whole official establishment has been preserved. It has changed a bit, but that's how they are.  These are my impressions.