The  first  time  I saw  a  dragon  in  the  forest  .  I  was  surprised  by  the  sound  of  the  dragon  .  I  was  surprised  by  the sound of the DPS for Burgas lives 30 km from the city, in the village of Ranak.  It is said that he collected metals. He lives in a village called Sabri Mehmetali, which is a kilometer from the town of Rannak.  During the revival process his life changed completely.  He is one of those 850,000 people who receive new names.  Sabri stays in the archives of Mevere as Sevdalina Lipiev.  He teaches his new name on a small hill to the village of Prilepov.  First, the police came and said,  I came to change my name.  What did you do? I reacted harshly.  Then they came again, reacted again,  and ran away for about 17 minutes in the forest, to be honest.  And I took some food and went to the village.  The isolation of the village was far away.  In the end they pressed, they drove into the meadow and pressed.  And I said, in the end, serve whoever you want.  Sabri Mehmetali and his brother Elin Madjarov are part of the prisoners of terror in the period of the revocation process.  Of all the detainees, four receive death sentences.  Many more are left in prison for the support of terrorist groups. These are 6 years of fear, in which in Bulgaria there are 617 terrorist acts committed by the Bulgarian Mohamedani.  In the unpublished archives, for each of them, one victim is recorded.  6 years, in which there are also reports of acts of repression of the state against the Turkish population.  Six years in which in the statistics of Mevarev are over 100 injured during the cases of terrorism.  Dear friends, today in this solemn hour you will get a passport of a citizen of the People's Republic of Bulgaria.  Our people, a few months ago, lived in exciting moments,  with which Mother Bulgaria took all her treasures and united her efforts.  We wish all of you with pride to bear your Bulgarian name.  In the early 80s, many films like this were shot for propaganda.  All of them were projected as movie reviews in all movie salons.  Sabrina watched them.  Can you imagine what it was like? I was you, the terrorists are already in Turkey.  How can you go out there? You won't believe in yourself. This process was determined for the first time as a renaissance 15 years later, on 18th January 1985, at the meeting of the Central Committee of the BKP.  I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Council of the State.  What is the problem? We need a watch, a watch at all costs, to see each other. Without a watch, we can no longer develop and exist.  For Sabri and his brother Elin Madjarov it is impossible to give up their Turkish roots and suddenly become Bulgarian.  As a sign of protest, the two brothers began to write anonymous letters and leaflets.  First to the State Council of the Republic of Bulgaria, and then to Todor Zhivkov.  Nearly 360,000 people do not wait for the end of this process and left the country with the so-called Great excursion.  They left their homes and moved to Turkey before closing the border in September 1989.  Sabri Mehmetali stayed with his brother.  They became part of his group of comrades, who started to make a declaration, to spread the leaflets.  I agreed and wrote 9 years in prison.  the process of revival as a Bulgarian reaction against Turkey's ambitions to expand into continental Europe and exit the Asian world.  Todor Zhivkov constantly points out the case of Cyprus,  the occupation of Northern Cyprus and the establishment of the Northern Cypriot Republic of Turkey.  There is also an experience for autonomy in Eastern Erdogan and in Northern Bulgaria.  There are separatist organizations even in the 1970s.  In his research, historians describe another project under the name called the Turkish Civilization in the World.  This project has been recognized by Bulgaria as one of the many Turkish states,  also by Hanko Brat and Asen.  Foreign special services participated and had an influence on the situation they were forming. Because the manifestations of the so-called, I stress, so-called Turkish terrorism  since that time in Bulgaria,  in all cases, the least were approved and viewed as manifestations of some national war.  and seen as a manifestation of some national struggle. The most influential in the situation in Bulgaria at that time  are the Turkish intelligence services, known as MIT.  They collect information about our military condition and the mood of the Polish population.  There are also developments that in order to stop this influence, the state security itself came up with the revolutionary process.  They were the executors, but those who commissioned the process were completely different people.  It is known who they were, but unfortunately there is no written evidence of how the decision was made.  Of course, it is known who they were. This is the leadership of the state. There is no written evidence of how the decision was made.  Of course, you know who this is. The leadership of the state.  The then Politburo.  We are invited to take part in the presidential election and the deputy presidents of the state.  At the end of the 1980s, Sabri Mehmet Ali was sentenced to 6 years in prison  for assisting a criminal group in committing terrorist acts.  to help a criminal group in carrying out terrorist acts.  He was released from prison and immediately after 10 November 1989 he was amnestied. Then the resurgent trial was recognized as a mistake and the Turkish names were returned.  The same case was filed against his brother Erin Madjarov was convicted for acts of sabotage and terrorism  because of the negative attitude towards the events of the Bulgarian nation.  His sentence is death.  We did not make a deal. After we saw the case, the Sofia Central Prison was left to us.  They took us to the Al-Qa'at's rooms, where we were interrogated.  They took me there, then they took him. They brought him to the hospital. In 10-15 minutes, we had the last meeting.  August 2, 1988.  This was the last day of my brother's death.  During the resurgent process, the decision was made to name the dead Turks.  To this day, the specialists have not found evidence  who and when made this decision.  There is no explanation where the new names of the dead are inscribed.  Neither who and why they were shot from the graves  their birth names.