The Instead of the past, remember the future. Recepts of the truth. Subscribe to the channel on visible and invisible on YouTube.  Hello dear viewers.  I start the show visible and invisible with the section History with Stefan Dechev.  To participate in our survey scan the QR code you see on the screen.  The response from our first two broadcasts was more than impressive. To enter our survey, scan the QR code you see on the screen.  The response from our first two broadcasts was more than encouraging. This charges us with more energy and desire to continue.  Today we will focus on another shameful page in Bulgarian history.  It is related to the attempt to assimilate the Turks in Bulgaria from 1984 to 1989.  It begins with the violent change of names from the end of 1984 to the beginning of 1985.  A cynically called later, revolutionary process. The second major ethnic cleansing in Europe in the years of the Cold War took place in 1989 and the so-called Great Excursion was again cynical.  For this reason, in the two parts of the story with Stefan Dechev, today I have invited colleagues Rumen Avramov and Ibrahim Karahasan-Chanar.  Rumen Avramov is an economist and a history student.  For many years he has worked at the Economic Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.  Since 1990 he has been the economic advisor of President Zelio Zhelev. Since 1994 he has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Center for Liberal Strategies.  During the period 1997-2002 he has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank.  For about ten years he has been working at the Center for Academic Research in Sofia.  Rumen Avramov is the author of many researches in the field of the Stupan history.  Among them are the Stupan 20th century of Bulgaria, the trilogy Communal Capitalism,  the monograph Salvation and Fall, the microeconomics of the stateisemitism in Bulgaria, 1940-1944.  Together with this, he is also the creator, in 2013, with Professor Nadya Danova, of the second volume of archival documents dedicated to the deportation of Jews from the Baltic Sea, Macedonia and Pirot. In 2016, he published the deepened monograph  The economy of the revival process.  It is one of the main reasons to invite him today to visit us in the history with Stefan Dechev.  Good day, colleague Avramov.  Good day. Colleague Avramov, I am glad that you are with us in our studio and that you will have the opportunity to speak to our viewers, who with each next broadcast are increasing more and more.  Do you remember when you first understood in 1984 that the Turkish names in Bulgaria were being changed?  I have a very clear memory of that time.  It was December 1984. in 1984, I was talking with friends known from Khaskovo,  who  said  that they were worried  that there would be events in these places.  And in general,  they told the official version  of the event,  talking about the Turkish autonomy,  excitement,  various attempts to defend themselves, the abandonment of the Turkish identity.  She thinks that it was not as official as official hearing from the state security.  Yes, but this information word about the change of name, I'm almost sure, but that was the first moment when I heard what was happening there.  From then on, the information was, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. What is the impression today? Is it a sudden change in the Turkish name in Bulgaria?  Or is it a logical end of a decade of politics for the assimilation of the Turkish population in the country?  Certainly not. It is not a moment, it is not a mistake of the leader who decided to conduct this campaign.  The roots are very deep and all historians accept this. We should go back to the past, at least 80 years ago.  They talk about the prehistory of the event. Almost everyone is going with a transition to what is called the Krastilka, the Krastilka during the Balkan war, which is the naming of the Pomatsi in Bulgaria.  A big campaign for the naming of the Pomatsi.  Then it goes through the obstacles of the politics of the Bulgarian state in various forms towards the Turkish minority in the country. I have in mind what happened in the 20s and 30s,  the reflection of the politics of Ataturk in Turkey,  the reaction to this policy somewhere,  the attitude towards the Turkish minority as a community that is in poverty in the 30s, but consciously, cannot be turned into a community, in the sense that there are some are some normative rules, but the flows themselves are chaotic, depending on the structure in the Bulgarigration of Bulgarian Turks to Turkey.  The numbers are not impressive.  It is a few tens of thousands of people who have passed away from Bulgaria in a period from 1925 to 1944.  Then the years of the Second World War are coming. The status and attitude of the Turkish people to the Bulgarian authorities is a fifth column of capitalism and imperialism in Bulgaria.  which is related to the geopolitical reality and to the deep traditions of the Bulgarian nation. But they coincide, in the sense that both of them lead in the direction of full distrust of this community,  which is observed, followed and treated in different ways. The most common is the following cycles of attempts to communicate, attempts to free the Bulgar in communicating with this minority.  We can say that communication with the minority is common, because before that we have stories of quite, or for other reasons, in the years of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the year of the war in the war in the year of the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the war in the Bulgarian society. So what happens with the reproductive process,  otherwise we will use the word etiquette, etiquette of a period in our history,  not etiquette of a content. What happens in the years of the reproductive process  actually gathers in five years all the tendencies in the politics of the Bulgarian state, the communist state, in particular towards the Turkish community.  First with the experience of assimilation and especially from the end of the 1950s, the beginning of the 1960s,  it seems that there is a clear distinction when it comes to the Pumacians, called in the documents Bulgari-Mohamedani, and the Turks from the other side, because all attempts to change the names for assimilation are more likely to be directed towards the turks.  In this sense, when does the idea of changing the names of the Turks appear among the communist elite?  You miss the The names of the companies have also been changed, except for the matches.  We have to go back again, directly after the Cold War, when the first line, given by Georg Dimitrov, is the end of the 40th century,  for the possibility of liberation, expulsion or expulsion, or liberation from the presence of the Turkish majority in Bulgaria.  This is the line that dominated then. Georg Dimitrov himself calls this, especially the Turks on the border, a poison that must be purified.  He still thinks, at least at the beginning, about internal purification, internal deportation of these people.  In the case of these statements, is it a response from a national stereotype towards the Turkey, or should we look at them?  Or, if Turkey was a socialist country, it wouldn't be ruled by communists?  We can't say the second question, so we have to speculate what it would be.  Otherwise, there are two. This is an example of the two, of the stereotypes that are being imposed and combined and are being reinforced with the realities of the Cold War.  After this initial period, the first big event in this policy is the opening of the border in 50-51.  When 150,000 people leave, 150,000 Bulgarian Turks, it is to a large extent a natural thing.  Bulgaria opens the border and almost puts, this mass of 150,000 Bulgarian Turks took over.  This is not an assimilation, this is not part of the Bulgarian politics. This was the period when Turkey closed the border and Bulgaria was free to conduct its policy towards the Turkish minority within the Turkish community in Bulgaria.  And somewhere towards the end of the 1950s, a turn began towards various forms of assimilation policy.  The name change is not yet being discussed.  You rightly pointed out that not only the Pumatists,  and we should also talk about the change of the names of the Roman Muslims,  which took place over the years.  Here I would add representatives of other minority groups, but it seems to me that you only paid attention to the fact that it is very difficult to have reviewed on the ability of the Turkish minority itself to assimilate other Muslim communities in the country and lead to their process of Turkization as a result of the state policy itself, maybe to a small extent. You mean the But this is an interesting line. There are conflict moments in which there is a clash between them.  It is not violent, but in any case there are differences in interests.  Other moments are based on identical violent treatment. So yes, the relations are different. When will the final decision be made to change the names of the Turks?  Well, I will have to think again.  It remains impressive that there are no days and hours.  No, there are no days and hours.  These are slow steps in the course of a relatively short period of time, however.  Well, after this turn of the 50s, which is a to the cultural assimilation of the Turkish community, the restriction of access to the Turkish culture, the production of Turkish-language culture, cultural manifestations, newspapers, magazines, theaters etc. This was the beginning of the 60s.  Again, back then, there was no thinking about changing the names.  It was simply about limiting the cultural identity and autonomy of this community.  In parallel with this, important steps were taken that are more radical towards the community of Pomashka, especially in 1964 in the trials in Ribnovo, which do not succeed.  There the government retreats, the government renounces its intentions, because it is quite unexpected opposition from the government of unfinished work, something to improve the relations in Turkey began,  which of course include the relations to the Turkish side in the country.  They are largely connected to the name of Ivan Bashev as Foreign Minister in those years, who actually arranged the relations with Greece in 1964.  And then we turn to, after Greece is over, after the military relations are already regulated, Bulgaria and Bashev more specifically turn to the relationship with Turkey and the Turkish youth.  Then the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian government, took a course to sign a settlement agreement with Turkey,  which took place in 1968 with the visit of Todor Zhivkov in Ankara in a month. Then the agreement was signed.  It entered into force in 1969 and was fulfilled in 10 years until 1978.  But this is a completely different kind of experience,  much different from what happened in 1950 and in 1989.  This is an experience in which, relatively civilized, on both sides, in talks and negotiations between the two sides,  the flow of 110,000 Turks is regulated, therefore connected to the first cohort of who died in the early 50s.  And only when this episode ends, which by the way, by the Bulgarian authorities, by the party, by the services, is considered negative.  They think that the benefits for Bulgaria are greater than the benefits from this 10-year period of expulsion.  It begins with the final line to what will happen in the 80s.  On the one hand, the Bulgarian state decides that it will no longer interact with Turkey, due to the agricultural agreements in its attitude to the minority.  This was not legalized, but the general agreement was signed with the visit of Kenan Evren, the general who ruled Turkey after the fall since the 80s in Bulgaria, accompanied by Todor Zhivkov in 1982.  It is clear that Bulgaria will not be associated with Turkey in its politics.  From then on, the thinking of radical measures towards the Turkish youth. the independence of the Cypriot-Turkish Republic, which strongly worries the Bulgarian authorities,  as well as the invasion of Cyprus in 1974.  There are events in Kosovo, in the wake of the Albanians of Kosovo in 1981,  which also disturb Yugoslavia, their desire for the balance of their state from the other republics in 1981.  At that moment, in Bulgaria, the ideas for a radical change in the policy towards the Turkish-Mos country, but still without formulating the most symbolic step in this new policy, which is the termination.  Are the Bulgarian party and state leaders sincerely worried about what is happening in Cyprus, in Kosovo, or without these events, the following of this line of restriction and the policy of assimilation would lead to this?  I think they are sincerely worried, with the instinct of the people, the services, the forces, the institutions,  and of course on the party line as well, on the geopolitical line as well, the anxiety is real.  Whether it will happen without Cyprus is difficult to say. I assume that yes.  In the sense that the intentions are for a radical change, but certainly these events in their eyes of the then government  legitimize the radical change in the attitude towards the Turkish community.  Who personally took part in the final decision to change the names of all the Turkish countries?  Well, let's turn to an important date. This is not a date, but a period. This is 1983-1984.  At that time we already had documented party decisions, plenums, discussions and more closed meetings,  in which it was openly discussed about a change, about a new policy towards the Turkish youth. And there are discussed different ideas, different directions, different possible solutions,  as one of the documents that Stoyan Mikhailov has written about himself,  which he makes the impression of, and he thinks that there is no authorship,  but in any case, in the following years, Stoyan Mikhailov claims authorship.  He claims authorship after the changes.  Yes, I think that after the changes.  A report that warns of dangerous consequences for the eventual radicalization of politics and, more specifically, the change of names.  The painting is drawn close to what happened in 1974 the entire ideological production, the reports of the services and the political decisions,  in which the first takes something else, although the finding of the, measures were actually taken that lead to limit the freedom of the Turkish youth.  But still carefully, or because the decision has not yet been made,  in any case, it is avoided to speak about the change of names.  And during this transition period, who are being drawn who are defined as the most vulnerable among the party leadership?  Well, Todor Zhivkov is in this direction.  Georgi Atenasov too, although he has not yet reached the top of his career, but in any case he is then the chairman of the Committee for State and National Control.  He, one way or another, obviously plays the leading role. He is the chairman of the National Control Committee.  He plays a leading role in this matter.  Traditionally, Pencho Kovadinsky is a figure in the Politburo,  who has a more ambivalent position.  He is a person who lived in this area. He lived after the Turkish occupation.  He sometimes expressed more, so to speak, soft positions, which he then refused when he saw where Zhivkov is hiding. And of course the whole process of the Ministry of Interior and State Security are for confirmation.  And with the presence of these disagreements and nuances, how this consensus was established in the end?  Or was it just a line that was being laid by a politician?  In the position that Zhivkov is hiding, it is clear where the common decisions go.  But we are talking about the beginning of May.  In fact, there is a period, we can date it to August 30, 1984, when the first detentions took place in Plovdiv and Varna,  which in this way already exclude, with additional legitimacy Bulgarian roots of the Turks in Bulgaria began to be discussed.  The intellectual archaeology in this direction began, i.e. the search for evidence for the 73rd year of the Bulgarian root of the Bulgarian Turks.  I wanted to ask you about this. In 1983-1984, the academic work in the field of natural sciences,  did it go in parallel with the debates among the party leaders or did it follow them?  Did they have any relation to what would be the ultimate solution of the people, of Zhivkov and the land of Zhivkov? Of course, the academic work and the academic support of the party's strategic decision, but rather the support of the historical community, the historical collegium, of this line of these decisions.  So since 1983 there are already quite clear archive records and publications, and it is clear that it is already in this direction of formulating the line for the thesis, which would later be the justification for the change of names.  And in this interim period, in the summer of 1984, somewhere until the fall of 1984, specific steps begin in this direction.  Something that actually has traditions from before this, but then it has already started systematically,  is the ban on giving Turkish names to children from mixed marriages.  This has become completely systemic in 1984. The whole line for the search for the native root is not yet called the national awareness of the Bulgarian Turks,  in which are placed separate areas, separate points in the middle places where the Bulgarian Turks live.  But this is not yet a mass campaign.  In fact, this is experimental, pilot, if you want, but in any case, the beginning is mosaic.  It is not mainly in southern Bulgaria, not in the north of Bulgaria, in the south-east of Bulgaria.  We will reach the autumn of 1984, when this will be in the head for November.  Based on what we have said so far, I feel what the answers to the next question could be, but despite everything I will ask it, because there is still such an opinion. There is a certain opinion that there should be some connection between the crisis of socialism back then and the change of names.  This policy aims at the deviant of public attention and national mobilization through the orientation of some enemy.  Do you find, after reading the archives and the whole documentation, the connection between these two things?  There are two aspects here.  There is a great story, which is to give some legitimacy, some purpose,  after the exploitation and the defeat of the ideological to nationalism, this policy of Turkish youth is also included.  But there is also a purely economic view on things.  As an economist, I have been working on this thesis, I conclusion is that it cannot be assumed that this is a campaign for attention from some economic crisis.  If we look at the chronology of the economic development of Union, a long crisis in the late 1970s.  Bulgaria has reduced its external debt to the lowest levels for a long period.  In 1984, the year with the lowest external debt in Bulgaria. There is nothing else that is specifically worrying in the economy, because there are all sorts of problems and problems in this economy, but not the most complicated ones.  There is nothing more different. I mean, I names of over 800,000 Turks in Bulgaria. And if we are not lying, after so many years and the research on these issues has already been done,  this whole campaign for the change of names ends, in addition to all the repressions, with 20 victims, 20 murders.  What does the change of names, its results and the way it was carried out tell us about the herself in the regime's character at that time?  Well, it's obvious. It's a brutal regime that can afford such a campaign, such an action.  There is no doubt about it. They just talk to themselves about the events.  She doesn't think that there will be an end soon.  No, don't think that. On the contrary, this is a campaign, at least in the beginning, which exposes the power of the regime.  A regime that, I am sure, will not start such a campaign.  It exposes the feeling of eternity to this regime. expressed, not only in the upper class, but also in the population.  In the world, we lived in a feeling of eternity of this regime.  In 1984, 1982, 1980, it was like that.  In your research, you say that these are people who think that their regime will be eternal, that they have no responsibility neither for the laws, nor for any humanistic principles, nor for history.  Why, after all, do they not leave an official, written decision that we should change the names?  They continue even in this purely private administrative discourse to speak in this way, with omicron and euphemisms.  For the history, this is not a novelty.  I will immediately make a parallel with Boris III and the decision to deport Neve from Macedonia, from Northern Greece and from Pyrot, or to not deport Neve from Old Bulgaria.  We have many cases...  And we don't have a document for both of them.  We don't have a document. The Monarchs don't leave a document.  Not everything leaves a document.  And this applies to Todor Zhivkov and Boris Tveti.  So, here this is not significant.  Of course, there is the hypothesis that such a document could have been destroyed,  but since the events follow a perfectly clear logic, they are clearly going along the line of something that was thought out, deepened and prepared.  There is no big problem that the sacred document in which it is said is not found, change the names.  You mentioned the economic aspects of which you really devoted this capital research. from the change of the names 1984-85, which will be manifested in the following months and years?  This action is of such a scale that it naturally has economic consequences. Just going back to the previous history of the attitude towards the Turkish youth, I realized that the analysis of the benefits and nothing of this. Neither one of the steps, I am talking about the development process, the beginning and the end, there is no preliminary analysis of what would happen, how would this step affect the economy of the previous experiences and the current one. The first years are relatively calm. After 1984-1985, until 1988-1989, the consequences are obvious, but they are not dramatic, they are not drastic for the economy. of really extremely deep consequences,  except for the 1989, when the expulsion of 310,000 Bulgarian troops was already being discussed.  But in the beginning things are still under political control.  How do you explain this?  I think that on the one hand there is a fixation in purely political goals of this action, which are so priority that they leave no room for thinking about the economy, which is on the background. In the name of national security, as it was understood then,  by those who ruled Bulgaria at that time,  this is a secondary problem, the economy.  Any price can be paid.  And in terms of the behavior of the Turkish population itself?  In the Turkish population there are some nuances that can be traced, they can be restored by the services, by the state security, by this behavior, where some effects are observed.  They are not dramatic, not very deep, but they are still followed very closely by the authorities.  Let's say this is the attitude towards the construction of private houses. And they are interpreted almost always by the services as an indicator of the situation of the Turkish community.  The moment the Turks stop building houses, it means that they are more interested in the prosperity of what happens to them economically in the country itself.  This is from the point of view of the community. There are economic consequences in these first years, economic reflections.  And the most visible part are the various decisions that are taken to buy the loyalty of the Bulgarian Turks.  What are the approaches to buying the loyalty?  They are the most classic, the most classic, which the planned economy developed during 35 years, always worked in this way.  When a segment of society has to be taken care of, measures are taken that ensure privileges, This is exactly what happened in the regions of the interests of the welfare, again within the framework of fully traditional plans and initiatives in this direction.  There are many other decisions and resolutions. These are the two biggest ones.  The third one is a long-term program for the dissemination of the settlement, which is written in a feminist way.  It is presented as a program in the demographic politics, in which, of course, no one talks about small regions,  even more so since there are no Turks in Bulgaria, but there are talks about areas with excessive unemployment, such as southern Bulgaria, Kyrgyzstan, that is, exactly the Turkic mixed regions, and areas with insufficient unemployment.  And big metrics are drawn, maps in which complex measures are taken to aim at the settlement, practically.  But despite the economic arguments, we are talking about the settlement and the disengagement.  Yes, of course, we are talking about the stimulation, not the settlement, the Turkish population in the respective regions and to include economic means for the settlement of Bulgar migration in this direction.  And this large program for research, of course, is financial security.  It also includes a lot of funds and sub-programs in investments.  Now, the truth is that I study it in the book, I deal with it,  the truth is that the result of this program is destroyed.  In fact, these regions, which  before 1984  are the most isolated in Bulgaria,  at least when we talk about the Kvjeliysk region,  or among the most isolated,  they do not change their status, they do not change their status, do not change their rank in the regional economic development of Bulgaria.  There are some local effects, certainly somewhere it is felt, but in general there is no significant placement in the level of prosperity of these regions in the Bulgarian economy.  I was impressed by something else in your book, I remember, that since all this logic, all these measures are entirely political,  you note some kind of opposition to the local leaders of the local level, when this goes in line with their economic logic.  Yes, and it is something curious to observe. It is a clash, collision is a strong word,  but a clash between the interests of the ideological establishment, the services and the technocrats, the Of course, not with an anonymous Turkish workman, because they do not meet all the requirements for direction, transition.  In fact, it is clear that with this campaign the economic establishment in Bulgaria does not feel very comfortable.  It sees obstacles that are superfluous, without which it would live better, would manage its enterprises better.  Of course, they are not a powerful enough political force to change things, but there is a repression from both sides, both from them and from them to the ideologists and to the services.  I remember that you specifically say that the Stupan leaders, contrary to the order,  there is data on state security, will allow the enterprise to speak in Turkish,  that there are cases, including the Bulgarian leaders, leaders turn to the Turks with their old names.  How should we explain this? Should we explain it with inertia, with economic motivation,  with the most common desire for interpersonal reading, or should we look for some kind of opposition to the usual approach? and not to be against the authorities.  There is inertia, there is just a tension, for sure.  This is felt in various documents.  But without going further.  This is just a curious touch, it is not something fundamental in these events.  I think that this policy created inconvenience for the Bulgarians themselves,  considering the higher security measures that were adopted after 1984-1985.  And maybe inconvenience is the word itself that needs to be used in cases, which actually created a negative attitude towards government policy, at least on such a level in this regard.  Yes, there is this thing, but I say again, this is not very substantial, but it is interesting. Let's talk a little more about the first relatively seamless period of the reproductive process, until 1988, when the economic relations with Turkey. Until 1985, even the reaction of Turkey  to the Turkish state  was weaker than  the expectations of the Bulgarian authorities,  economically. The harsh reaction  began in 1986, when they took  some significant economic measures.  In 1986, the trade agreement between Bulgaria and Turkey was denounced, which had a huge effect on the exchange rate with Turkey.  It fell by about 60-70%.  Turkey stopped buying electricity from Bulgaria, which is also a big blow for Bulgaria.  Turkey is making a lot of mistakes in international transport, which is another very very impressive in economic relations.  Bulgaria loses Turkey economically as a neighbor during these three years.  Plus, here the political isolation of other Arab and Islamic countries must be improved,  which Turkey also believes in this. What can we count on in the economic behavior of the Turkish population are engaged in activities that not all of them are fully involved in. which is more powerful than the other credit in the Bulgarian rural area at that time.  That is, there is again a reduction or strengthening of the economic activity of this community,  which is again evaluated by the services, the party and all other institutions as an indicator of the mood.  Now, of course, they have much more direct periscopes in the community to see what happens.  Let's say, the reading, reading of the letter is on a huge scale. There are hundreds of thousands of letters that are opened, that are followed and in which the details are registered.  In this sense, the documents of state security give a true picture of the mood among the Turkish population in the country?  Or are you aiming to mislead yourself sometimes?  Generally speaking, I think there are two lines.  The party documentation and the service documentation.  The party documentation has more chance to correct things,  to justify, to see the positive for them, and to describe things, while in the service the documentation is more objective, in quotes, in any case, we have actually put on the map what we can now use of the united socialist nation, the national unity and so on. and on the other hand the pragmatic cynicism that prevails in the documentation.  How do these two different modes of speech combine?  They are not quite different.  In the sense that cynicism has permeated the entire rhetoric of the political authorities.  The documents, the protocols from the Polit of PolitBio and other parties are insanely cynical in their statements, in their thinking.  There are just examples that exceed everything one can expect.  In this sense, there is no big difference with what is written for the soldiers. They are also cynical. Their position is clear. There is the paranoia from the fear of the moment it is just like a panic fear.  The Turkish army sees them, if not until Plovdiv, then at least until Slivan, so for one or two days, this is expressed, this is written.  Is it a national stereotype, is it a folklore thought or is it something that the party leaders of this generation have noticed specifically?  There is a stereotype of it as a common cultural background, but there is also the fear of the professional.  They will fight against the Turkish army if it enters Bulgaria, and they are afraid of the Turkish army, this is seen, this is written.  Has any consideration of the Soviet Union and other socialist countries appear in these documents?  Yes, there is. At times of great fear, it is said that we still have the Soviet Union to protect us.  This is clear.  But again, for the economic consequences, the last thing I can say for these three years.  The expectation is that such a huge campaign will require a huge price as a cost for the power of the state.  I have been in the archives of the MWR and the UB this year, and maybe since the first time I have entered these archives, because they are in the committee on the files, they are not available now, but they are systematic. And my impression is that actually no economic shock for the services has been experienced. Not only shock, there is also a huge influx of money.  There is the 84-85 year, this is the peak of the financing of the MRA and the other services, probably the army,  which is, however, largely due to previous decisions taken before 1984.  They are taking action. There is one significant decision, which is the establishment of internal troops,  which, however, does not turn out to be economically so expensive.  It is more likely to be redirected to the restructuring of the military composition to create this new structure.  And furthermore, in fact, Meveret and the army, as much as they participated in it,  met these events without having to pay huge additional credits for these ministries.  Even in 1988-1989, when the country's economic situation was deteriorating and the country was facing fiscal restrictions, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the MEDERE. They do it with a smaller budget than in previous years.  There are visible increases in the loans.  What happens during the ethnic cleansing, the cynically called big excursion?  Can we talk about serious economic damage?  Yes, then the picture is completely different. Then the shock is in many lines, and here in the book this is seen in many details in different aspects.  Shock already has macroeconomic consequences and, generally speaking, this is the last blow on the economic and political regime, of course, on the regime that leads to its total decline,  its complete disintegration.  Because what happened in 1989  is that on one side there is a monetary shock,  on the other side there is a shock on production,  on the third side there is a shock on production, on the other hand, there is a demographic shock.  And this is from such a scale that even a normal economy would not be able to withstand.  Yes, because this working class was there.  What's the point of having a certain adaptation of these people in Turkey?  We are talking about a short-term plan.  Yes, a short-term plan. They are the next years and the economic aspects of the assimilation policy of the Turks in Bulgaria. Is there any common legalities that you could take out of your activities as a conclusion?  And are there any noticeable differences in these three cases, generally speaking? We have a population that in most cases is occupied by some prestigious niches, prestigious professions, while in Turkey it is a little different, even though Turkey has a lot of intelligence in the country.  This is one of the main differences. In the first two cases we have a population that has some form of economic envy, so to speak.  Not that they are much more impoverished than the middle-class, but there are economic elites who are jealous.  And the subtext of the redistribution of this wealth and these assets and property has always been there.  As a motivation for progress and for the background.  In Turkey this is not the case.  There is the political and geopolitical motivation. If you ask about the general laws, both cases are signs that the Bulgarian majority has problems living with the minority.  Both cases are related to the mythology of the original tolerance of the Bulgarian people and all these stories in this direction.  No, I'm not saying that we are unique in this regard or that there is no such thing in other nations.  There are problems everywhere with the mythology of tolerance.  This was the finale of the first part of the story with Stefan Dechev.  Thanks to Rumen Avramov for the guest. See you in a bit.  Hello again. As I promised you previously, in the second part of the story with Stefan Dechev we will  talk to Professor Ibrahim Karahasan Canar.  He is a well-known historian, culturalist, Ottomanist and Turkishologist.  Over the past years, one after the other, his books appeared.  The Ottoman Secrets, The Harem,  The Ottoman Secrets, The Inicherites,  The History of Turkey,  The Minorities in Bulgaria,  The Muslim Culture of the City of Nikopol.  I am convinced that in the already well documented  policy of the Bulgarian state from the communist period for the assimilation of the Turks in Bulgaria,  related to the act of changing the names from 1984 to 1985, as well as the attempt to ethnically purge from 1989,  still continue to lack the votes of the Turks in Bulgaria. That's why today I decided to present one of my guests  with a similar title to Ibrahim Karahasan Canar.  I welcome him to the History with Stefan Dechev.  Thank you for the invitation. Hello.  I would like to start with one such question.  What are your personal memories, autobiographical ones? What did it mean to be a Turk in Bulgaria between the beginning of the 60s and the beginning of the 80s? Before the name change.  I was born in Nikopol and even today there is a large Turkish community there.  My impressions in my childhood years, I lived there until I was 13-14 years old, after my family moved to Sofia to live. I have to say that Nikopol is an extremely tolerant city and I did not feel this pressure on the fact that I am a representative of the Turkish ethnicity.  My friends were Bulgarians, we were friends, we played together and I did not feel this pressure that I felt later, when I came to live in Sofia.  Suddenly I felt the difference when I came to Sofia, when the Turks were not so...  They were like, if I can say so, representatives of the Turkish ethnicity, mainly intelligent people who worked in the Turkish radio and so-called Turkish newspapers,  intended for the Turkish nationality in Bulgaria, and a few newspapers, and some wrote in the newspaper.  This was a certain group of people who actually worked for the nomenclature, of course, there were no random people. But imagine, a 13-14 year old boy, I was in the class of 25-30 children, who are Dimitrovsky district council, and I was not comfortable.  Suddenly I felt the difference. I had such our textbooks, which massively exploited the topic of Turkish slavery.  At one point, when they were talking about Turkish slavery, I felt very bad because my comfort was broken, so I almost felt guilty for everything that happened in the past.  And when I had some disputes with fellow students and other people from the school and so on, I had such problems in the university, of course, when I was accepted to be adequate to everything that was happening. I argued with some Bulgarian friends and enemies.  When they had nothing to say to me in the argument, they called me a Turkish such. So there was a huge difference in this regard. It is usually thought that the capitals are more tolerant in comparison to the other parts of the country.  Generally speaking. But as far as I can see, your personal story does not speak in favor of this in comparison to Nikopol and Sofia.  Maybe, sorry, I do't agree with the capital.  In fact, the capital was the center of the communist power, of the media and so on.  So, the majority, in my opinion, this is a wrong impression. The capital of Sofia to the Turkish population in the country.  This is part of the regime's attempts to marginalize him since the 1950s.  Did you perceive this as a repression or as part of the whole atheistic policy of the regime towards all minorities?  Or did you feel that there was a more special attitude towards the Islamic religion?  I am a tolerant person, open to all religions. My family is a secular family. I didn't think about it then, but later, when I contacted my relatives in the region,  for example, my father was from Razgrad, I went on vacation in Russia,  especially in Razgrad, we know, this is one of the Turkish enclave in Bulgaria, the weight of the Turkish ethnic group is very high.  There, people are more religious, more represented, religious holidays, kurban bayram, let's say,  Yes, you can give notes.  Yes, or the circumcision, sunet bayram, they are not noted, but when I went to the province,  I was already impressed by this thing, and as if, but there was some relative freedom in my childhood. Or I didn't get into trouble like that, but people went to the mosques, they kept the holidays.  Old people went with the traditional dress, and the my view was more mature, of course, that the pressure was gradually increasing towards the Turkish medicine. I asked myself a question because I talked to many people and they shared their personal views.  Let's not say that the communist regime had myths and so on, but these myths were put by people and somehow they ruled this religious youth and were influencing it.  In the early 1980s, this pressure was even more intense,  because the media, the news, were banned in the mosques. I felt that the pressure was getting bigger and the newspapers, for example, Yenilshk and the Turkish language was gradually removed from the programs of the Bulgarian schools.  And so, gradually, it was felt that the country itself was moving towards another plan, which was related to about the Turkish minority or the Muslims in Bulgaria?  When you say that you felt this change in politics, this increasing restriction, I was very happy because I had small children, I was used to live in a city that was discriminated against, of course.  I was self-contained, I was lazy, and so on.  I felt these things, but this massive attitude towards people, towards this, was felt the most in the province.  And when I went to the province, I shared a little bit, I felt that something was happening, that there was a change.  But it was being talked about, but I didn't expect that. Even more going through this whole process,  you can see that the government itself  was much easier for them,  although there were risks, especially in the Rhodopites,  Kornitsa, Breznitsa and so on.  With the change of the names of the Romani people.  I think that the communist step should be towards the Turks,  a council of an internal circle of the authorities.  In this number, let's say, another Rezivkov, he left another to take the cup out of the water,  but he has always been against the Turkish youth, one of the Bulgarian nation.  At the time you were talking about unity of the nation, now you are talking about sustainable development.  His name still remains a shadow, but if you have to seek some responsibility,  the responsible people in Milovo think that this man also had to be supported, because he really did a lot against the Turkish ethnicity.  As they say, there were Turkish proto-gen, who is from Loznitsa, the Turkish community had a certain. In 1980, it was decided that it was still risky.  Somehow, the things were not prepared. However, in 1984, the events in Cyprus and so on raised the issue of the increase of the Turkish population.  It was very often confirmed in the space for Turkish autonomy.  This was more of a service for security.  Yes, to prepare the people, the society to be prepared.  Can you imagine which capital they chose? Varna! Let's not forget that in the 70s a novel was released, called Time Separately.  In practice, this was the first step towards the separation of the Bulgarian nation, not the unification.  Let's not talk about the film begins, there is nothing to regret.  And look what they did on the way back.  On the occasion of the Turkish slavery and so on,  created in the growing up in Bulgaria an idea of machinism and so on.  Have you discussed with your relatives in the family circle these relations and what actually what the educational program actually does and where it can lead to and whether it can instill stereotypes in the Bulgarians towards the Turkish population in the country.  Have you discussed it and what answers did you get, for example from parents, from relatives, of course. My mother was very sensitive to these things.  And so I shared with her, in general, we had very difficult conversations because I felt her inner suffering. I imagined her as a protezillite.  If we open separate pages of time, we will see that the Turks are not people,  they are imagined as people with three eyes, pagans, who eat people. I was not feeling well.  I shared these things in school when I was a child.  I was driven out of the comfort zone in which I lived.  There were moments when I felt that I had two specialties – geography and history. I felt that a difference was being made. I know which people follow me in the blog I live in and the colleagues, the party secretary, how he followed me through. Yes, when I was practicing as a teacher, there was a place there, the name of the Sochi of course, is very rare to become more than a teacher.  I went there and the director, when he understood that I was talking to Ibrahim,  it was about 5-10 minutes, the distance I walked. She told me that a more serious candidate has stopped recently.  There were such moments.  I also felt it at the university as a student.  There was a professor, I don't know if I should call him an advertiser,  he was called Dakov. He opened the exam and asked me how much I deserved, what grade I should give.  I was well prepared at that time.  I said I wouldn't be a 5th grade student, but a 4th grade.  He kept on turning things around, that it was about the Turkish slavery and you knew what it was back then and so on.  He tried to get me into my mental state as a person and I felt this thing. Back then I was younger and more energetic.  I felt the consequences of this in a region where I was working.  I went to work on a decision in 1988.  I felt the consequences of this.  I thought that something would change.  They said that there was a problem with the recovery process,  there were other problems that were raised against me.  And so, how to say it, there, in this region,  this was in Benkovski, I felt a deliberate confrontation  between the government that was exercising against the people, the Turks, the Bulgarians, the Pumas, and they felt that the hot water was boiling.  And then I somehow felt the things and said to myself that the regime is already collapsing and cannot continue like this, and they have already became changes. When you talked about this director, I remembered to ask you,  you, from early years, when you were introduced to strangers,  or somewhere when you go, or when they tell you the name  when more children are gathered, did you feel any confusion  when you heard Ibrahim?  From the opposite side or the neighboring ones.  We are talking about the earlier period, the younger years.  Yes, the earlier, the younger years, before there is a reproductive process.  I haven't seen the people, but I heard what was being said.  March 3rd will be national holiday, in school a given lesson will be and so on. I was not able to see the people around me because I was literally floating in the ground.  This was a special moment. I didn't turn to people.  Later on, in my student years, when I was more energetic, I felt a mission, a myself I already had the preparation to  to oppose a given person who asked a question so on and so forth  argumentative then I felt much more confident and stronger while in  my early years the man is more fragile not in shape so I felt very  I apologize for saying this thing. I felt very sorry to say this.  Do you remember in 1984 when you first heard that the names were changed?  I had a colleague from Kyrgyzstan who became the head of the pro-world there.  He had been appointed before we finished. I was the head of the pro-world there. And he...  They had appointed him before we finished.  And you were in Sofia in 1984?  Yes, I was in Sofia in 1971.  I have been in Sofia since 1970.  And he came for the January session.  He had come for the exam.  And I was like... I had offered him to sleep in our room instead of going to hotels. He came for the January session, for the exam.  I suggested him to sleep in our room instead of going to hotels.  He came, I think it was the first days after New Year.  The campaign started on December 20th.  He came to us.  We probably had a test in Sofia University, we were colleagues somewhere in the 3rd, 4th, 5th year after the new year.  Winter session.  He came and said to me, hello, Turks.  He tells me and I say, what happened?  Something felt like that, he was talking, but it was quite secretive.  I had heard something, but I was not sure about this campaign. After that he explained me the situation and I understood that in those areas where there is a compact health care, these are the most important areas where there are so few people. And I thought that things had started like that,  that I was prepared inside,  and I was asking myself some questions,  what will happen, how,  and so at a certain moment  I met the same woman who sent me the cheque  in my district council.  This was already in January 1985.  Yes, January.  She called me at home.  No, at work. I didn't have a home phone at that time.  At work, they told me that she was looking for me and that she would meet me, right?  To go to the university in the area.  I felt that I had to look for her, I was working normally.  At one point I was looking for her in a school, I was added to a school, the principal said that he was going to another school.  They were looking for me there, they told me that I had just finished.  Apparently, the people who I was investigating on the spot,  after all, Sofia had fewer Turks, they had a list,  they were worried. They came home the same week, several people came.  There was an admiral, a civilian, a captain or a major came to us and we talked. They told me directly how things were going.  The state policy is like that, the nation is like Mishchevka, and I went to her.  They used this language for the one socialist nation in front of you.  Well, they have to argue in some way.  Still, I'm not an accidental person.  I was a regular student at Sofia University. In 1981, a Turkish regular student could hardly enter Sofia University.  He probably had an interest in a group of people who were dealing with this kind of intelligence.  After that, I went and asked the asked her if she had the same name.  She said that probably, and she didn't ask her.  Actually, the whole circle of people,  in which I was professionally and administratively involved,  these people had some responsibility.  She said yes.  I asked if there was any salvation from this thing.  I said no, she is older than me.  She said that she was prepared and that she would not create any problems.  I left and had to prepare my parents. Because in any opposition, whatever it is, intellectual if you will, they just run to some extent, they decide things their. It could have been a paradox.  My mother and brother to have other names, family names, I to have another family name.  I went and prepared my parents. My father was sick then.  And so my mother and father prepared and we understood each other's words and then I went to them and explained the things to them, that I have talked to the family, the names are clear to me, I decided to choose a name, and not for them to put me a funny name, because there were such paradoxes. They didn't think much when they had to perform a state order and they acted.  It's obvious that you didn't get any votes, but I was mentally strong and prepared.  This colleague of mine came to the province, I heard about the relatives and so on.  I saw that there, in my phone conversations, I understood that there is action there with the people who are already resisting.  There were victims you heard about.  Yes, I was already prepared.  A relative of my wife, her other husband, beaten, he tried to resist, he was a very educated, modest person wife is from the village of Vladimirovce, Razgrad. Our not only psychologically but also physically, he was so pressed and crushed.  This man survived thanks to the fact that two sheep were killed there  with sheep skin, they wrapped him up and so on.  The people's medicine.  So a close person, besides that I had a friend in Nikopol,  I have a friend from my childhood, he told me so,  we talked to him,  this man was also intelligent.  He was a very experienced person in the town of Nikopol.  For me, things were clear and I had to take it into my own hands and be prepared for these things. And when they start changing your name and your family,  the members of your family, the change of names in the South-East,  in the North-East and in the North of Bulgaria has already happened.  Yes, Sofia has ended last as a big city, because there is the intelligence.  They thought that because the government is a cooperative,  here any government, as government is a member state, they would easily deal with me or the Turkish intelligence in the capital.  What did the behavior of the authorities and the employees of the institutions institutions that implemented this process.  Did you see any of them? Do you think that any of them has experienced any harm?  For the current situation.  I don't know about the authorities. I didn't have much work then,  I don't remember the names. I went administratively to Lulinskiya.  I had lived in my home for several years, where I am now.  Things were just pro-form.  You fill a small hole and they give you a hole.  Things happened very fast.  For them it was best to have administrative things done in the fastest way possible,  so that there would be no additional obstructions.  Another question is that after the fall of the names, the change of names in these regions, Razgrad, Karzhali, things have become much more in the cold version, if you can say so, at night.  Especially they took night time from those families where they felt that there would be some opposition, so that they would not seen, so that it is not known. Otherwise, during the day, if you lead some other people, the people of the Turkish community live together for so many years, they will see each other and there will be some opposition.  Therefore, very secretly, in deep secrecy, these actions were carried out at night in these regions where there are many Turks, for the sake remembered the names. What was the behavior of the ordinary Bulgarians back then?  Some colleagues did not believe that this was happening.  They heard, but did not believe that this could have happened.  And when my name was changed, probably the leadership said, Ibrahim is already Eddie Koyce, you know, his family.  They were a little in a difficult situation. Even a colleague in French came to me and told me, I did not believe it, he said, is it true? I said, yes, it is true.  So they believed us, the Bulgarians.  But in general, in my environment, where I was, friends and so on, in Sofia, I was with my Bulgarian friends,  they kept calling me, how can I call you, you are my Ibrahim, right?  Those people who were close to me, they kept calling me and somehow felt sorry for me.  But I think that this feeling was this feeling, they were afraid of all these events, so that they would not become a target, 1949, but at one point it turned out that in a short time, with a common side, it could return to its repressive grip far back in the years of the initial regime.  This is far back in the years of the regime's initial pressure. So, the Milansi theory was voluntary, of course.  That these are Islamized Bulgarians, that the propaganda was already working.  They were prepared.  The 80th year was a little risky, but there were several years,  the 84th and 85th were already prepared in every respect.  The risk was that Turkey was next to them.  You know that we Turks, in principle, for me, my homeland is Bulgaria, of course.  But...  Ana Vatan, the mother, is Turkey.  But you can say Baba Vatan, the fatherland, is Bulgaria.  We were born here, this is our fatherland.  But I thought that the state would be worried about this, but it was prepared and a certain policy began.  Then came Bulgaria, Amnesty International, everything was prepared.  They came, showed them the mifti, the Muslim community has a leader, they gathered people placed over the mosque,  here they are, make a vow and this quickly sent them. So things were planned and prepared, but until the last dark spot, which could be a concentration camp, things were in a certain direction and the man could not escape, as they say. There was even a small segment of the Turkish community that believed in this. There were party secretaries, many Turks in the regions.  And they were under siege. I had a cousin who spoke exactly in the same way we argued a lot.  But the man was under siege. Many people wanted to keep their jobs, to be on the lookout.  Fear drove them to say that, but I think that very few people were convinced of this.  Fear just drove them to be like that.  How did the Turks live the time from December 1984 to February 1985?  From the stories as far as I understand, from Turkey, from Karjalinsko, you have been to Razgrad, you have information from Nikopol. I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I was born in the city of Turka, I But what I said is that there were many infiltrated people in the Turkish community.  And this does not guarantee that your closest people are not relatives. And so it was brought and followed and people were very careful and did not dare to speak.  They knew it back then, they did not learn it after 1989.  Yes, of course, but the fear was very big. In every region there were people who were in some way opposed and they see the fate of this family,  whose wife is left to watch the children, he in Belen, in Peresin, in Bobov, down the Stara Zagora street.  In general, these people were, to use this term again, they were a bit upset and just became angry at some point.  They actually didn't want to further explain the situation, considering that my wife is in prison and so on. And somehow, maybe according to his instructions, they went to him  to say, don't create problems because of me. So there was a  delay, a definite delay, and this delay was preserved until the May events of 1989.  If we go back to 1986, no one predict that after 3 years the regime would leave. How did the Turks in Bulgaria imagine the future then?  Without knowing that this regime, its days are numbered. They worked a lot. They compensated for everything with work.  Certainly, when it comes to changing the name or when we are talking about the big excursions, the state knew, but did not know in what parameters, he wasn't prepared for this.  Because the Turks usually worked in the heavy industries.  In the rural sector, they worked in the construction industry, in the big enterprises, in the heavy enterprises, in the lignite factory in Kyrgyzstan and so on. These people actually felt like they were really very hardworking and very honest in their work.  No one can deny that.  The other question is that some pro-Turkish parties, after the changes, changed this image of the Turkish youth.  The hard-working and the They were focused on their efforts, but what was said inside the family is a separate issue.  Things are very individual there, but I remember the fear that made them, if you will, so attached to your community and so much work, but it is a traditional line.  But imagine me on March 3 in a village, when I was reading, they moved me with state security problems and so on.  The move and the No, I went to work according to the rules. The one I taught became the head and they found a gymnasium in Lavika.  This was my only money-granting adventure. They gave me double the fees.  Yes, yes.  And in Lavika we will find a new school in Benkovski Gymnasium, etc.  The events have already passed.  They have passed. I went there.  There were more events in Benkovski than the change of the name.  Yes, before that the church was blown up, people were put there, they almost threw the blame and the problems I had there.  When these people who were imprisoned in Berlin were tested,  pure people, almost heroes, I experienced the burden of that time.  Part of it is in comparison with what it was. I was very interested in this.  After the events with me happened, they wanted to fire me, so on and so forth,  they gave me a place, a hindrance to the recovery process, I certainly had problems with my state.  They also moved me to become a teacher in another village.  Let's call it the village of Vrben, he was driving and on March 3rd the school had to be built in some way.  The principal was Turkish, he received the instructions to celebrate, the outside, he felt me what kind of person I am.  He said to me, on March 3 you have to write a report for the national holiday.  I said, okay, you have a party secretary here, various historians.  He said, no, just don't understand.  And I ate this thing,  but  to be clear, it was so balanced and I said,  but on this day, March 3, it was a winter,  without snow, let's remember,  no one went out to this holiday,  the whole village was 100% Turks, I only saw the chim in a humble pose.  This also made an impression on me.  These people have not changed in their majority.  They carry their essence, their identity.  No name can change your identity, your Turkish, religious and so on.  As they say, these are the most intimate, so to say, strict, in quotes, I would say,  lines of human character, of the human essence, which can hardly be changed.  There are moments that lie in my past, when I talk about these things, for me this is one of my pasts, which I can't close the page of this past, but I are talking about now, of course. You mentioned the May events, 1989 and the protest of the Turkish population  against the change of names and against the policy of violence, of assimilation.  Do you remember the end of May, May 29, I think it was, on TV, and where were you, how did you perceive her at the very first moment you heard her?  I was in the village of Vrben, I was told to work for two years, then I became a problem, Benkovski was waiting to finish the next year to be in Sofia for the next year, I was watching it on TV, and my Bulgarian colleagues, teachers, professors were very excited. The national team is a very limited region and not everyone was sent there by chance.  I think that these Bulgarian colleagues who came from other regions and from the country were definitely understaffed. The other one, Todor Zhivkov, said, go to Turkey and accept me.  Those who think so and so on.  And so an euphoria was created. This is actually from the beginning of the band. All that you asked me, how these people felt during this period,  it is already disturbing people, as if they were saying that our misery ends, like the Bulgarians here, they were looking for some kind of salvation in Turkey. But the truth is, because I was in exactly this village, in a Turkish region, I saw how things were exactly, how give up, but I felt in them the pain of having to give up their home.  These people took their luggage and left it in front of their houses, a nice house with a nice garden.  These people with a limited luggage, their children, elderly people, some of them stayed, they could not leave.  I felt the whole pain of these people then.  As they say, I lived in Sofia, but I was inside, in things, I felt this process, these people.  These people, later, 360,000 people left, 120,000 people left, but after the changes, these people, when they retire, they love Bulgaria.  When did you feel that returning to the Bulgarian parliament, when these people stood in front of the parliament with candles. I was one of them when I asked for the names. And then I felt that there would simply not be a break,  because there was another moment of change.  Bulgaria was already on the other front,  not on the border of the Cold War between Bulgaria and Turkey.  Bulgaria was a candidate to leave the candidate from the other side of the barricade.  I thought that Turkey, as a NATO member country, a country that is heard in the world today, despite the unsuitable policy introduced by Recep Tayyip Erdogan,  I thought that things would come to their place.  I thought that the process was already irreversible.  The biggest paradox was that when the names had to be returned,  at night they would be gone for no time, they would change the name without any procedures,  or if they were opposed and sent to the White Heaven and the Judiciary, then the administration will do something very, I would say,  contradictory, something that cannot be...  Cynical.  Cynical, I would say.  The return of the names of the defendants.  Yes, to fill a form in which you voluntarily want a name and to find two witnesses  who must prove that you voluntarily to voluntarily return to the name,  to prove your origin, and not your closest people,  husband, father, brother, cousin, but two other neutral witnesses.  And this law was in 1989, the curfew that was revoked.  And the most interesting thing is that up to 2-3 years if you don't change your name for 2-3 years, you don't have the right to change it.  But whatever, these are the recidivism.  How did you and how did the Turks react to the protests who participated in the reviving process in the previous years.  There were parties that were created. How was it?  The Public Security of the National Interests. I think things were not in their best condition. For me, we can't say that Bulgaria was already in a deep economic crisis.  And this economic crisis turned into a political crisis.  I thought that the communist government had no place in the happen and the process will be irreversible.  At what stage did the attitude of the Turks in Bulgaria to the Bulgarian state pass after the changes?  From 1990 to the present day, would you describe them in general? Or was it just trust, or was it just a temporary distrust, which was constantly being held by the DPS electorate?  The trust at that time, during the changes, was very high, because they had sold it for nothing, or had left their houses to relatives, or had't know, to go to school together.  The Bulgarians themselves as a community, as such, their brain was washed up until 1989 by the communist government,  they continued to keep their children close to them, they continued to share the holidays in a circle.  Then things, of course, as they are now, were released from the souls of people in 2024, compared to what it was in 1984?  I mean, not only what the official propaganda says.  Of course, it is different. We see, even though we still have poor experience, we are talking about a change of the educational content,  within the subject of the big educational process,  or about tolerance, and so on.  More and more places are being found in the educational system.  This is a completely different generation of education.  Many Bulgarians have fallen under the influence of so-called socialistic literature.  They have changed somehow. There is still concrete head, but in those because people continued to work, colleagues were together, children were friends.  There are many mixed families in Nikopol after the changes.  Did they mention such phenomena of the mass culture, such as the Turkish TV series that were broadcast in a released in the last 20 years.  They are a bit shallow, but they are that the Bulgarian, through these films,  enters the Turkish soul, the Turkish culture.  And these are people who have the same problems that he has.  Yes, in these films we see that the family is put forward,  he reads things.  More surprising is that Bulgaria is already very commercial. The Bulgarian film art life in Turkey in the present and in the near future.  Did the opening of the borders help? It was for trade, it was as an excursion, it was looking at the Turkish landmarks, many companies offer excursions to Odrin, to Tsarigrad, to Ankara.  Add to that already a better standard of life for a Bulgarian who rests during the flight in Turkey, on the Mediterranean coast, all of this does not contribute to the mutual recognition and change of voices and stereotypes?  Of course, our Turks, Bulgarians also know that until 1989 there was no tourism to Turkey, a certain group of people could go out.  This manipulation that was on the Bulgarian society had spoken its word in some way.  And when after 1990 many Bulgarians became familiar with Turkey, the Turkish culture, especially through tourism, of course, was very surprised.  They were prepared for something more simple, but they were fascinated by Turkey.  I myself have colleagues who go to Istanbul, go to other places, go on a holiday and come back and say,  I did not expect it, I am delighted with this thing.  So things have changed in this regard.  We shouldn't forget that the fact is that only the Turks tell the Bulgarians, the Komso from all the Balkan countries.  How do you think the Turkish community feels at the moment about the separation of the movement for rights right and freedom in your political representative?  Unfortunately, the movement for the right and freedom, before the change, started with a good idea, right?  There was a question of religious freedoms, there was a question of teaching the Turkish language, Bulgarian schools and so on.  The ethnic card was very skillfully played out in the beginning.  Now it is very dangerous to play it out, but in the beginning, as if they exploited and used it,  the Bulgarian Turks thought that their rulers would be protected by a political party, which later took the prerogatives of the communist government, which manipulated the society. DPS was manipulating the Turkish ethnic group in Bulgaria, the Turkish minority.  Now things are not very good.  The so-called Turkish party, when we know who is behind it, is no longer a secret that they are carrying out orders from the East.  I do not view Turkey.  What happens is that these processes in the party are not good, but for me it is obvious that both continue to manipulate the Turkish community.  Now, a new beginning.  In the face of Dalyan Peevski, I think he manipulates well or buys well the Roma community.  I always say, when I have been invited and have talked about this political issue, that the traditional Bulgarian parties,  another question is how was the DPS allowed to participate in the elections during the changes,  that the Constitution was violated there, a member of the Constitution.  I think that the Bulgarian political parties, the traditional during the changes that appeared during the political...  I missed an important moment.  Yes, they are in the way of the Turkish survival.  And they have to attract intelligent Turks who are politically and educationally trained.  And they have to participate in these parties.  And maybe what is happening now would have existed in the Bulgarian society, but at that time it was abolished.  We should not forget that after the First World War in the 1920s, many Turks had in the Zemedalska Party Alexander Stambolinsky. And in this case, the vice president, Todor Kavalji,  the vice president of Peter Stoyanov, God forbid,  said that if the politics towards the Bulgarian Turks  was the politics of Alexander Stambolinsky, there would be no DPS.  Maybe. I really respected him and he was a personal acquaintance to me.  And unfortunately, right there, where the obstruction in the democratic forces began.  During Peter Stoyanov's second term, who the second term, but he made a mistake.  When he was being a candidate for the second term, yes.  I am talking about politics. He made a mistake with Neli Kutskova and, as they say, other things started to happen. My last question is what is your dream for the life of the Turks in Bulgaria and for the relationship between Bulgaria and Turkey in the future?  What can unite the interests of Bulgaria and Turkey is the entry of Turkey into the European Union. This moment was a breakthrough,  both from Turkey and from the West,  which is why the European Union is called the Christian club,  and Turkey could have been the first Muslim country.  And these processes, which today become non-worldly processes,  oriented towards a marginalized Turkish community.  These are the foundations of the world state, embedded in the ideas of the founder of the Turkish nation,  the first president of the Turkish state, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.  I think they will be in a different way, but it will be a mistake if our community, as a result of what Recep Tayyip Erdogan is leading as a policy,  that Turkey is heading towards, if not, it is heading towards, to the Ottomanism, to the religious values, and so on.  There is nothing wrong with the religious values, there is something wrong with the extremes.  But I think that in Turkey there is a process like this in recent years.  New Turkey is looking to the West.  And I think that if the People's Republic Party had won the presidential elections and and parliamentary elections in Turkey. The world may be different, because Turkey will make a big step towards the European Union and NATO.  We know that there are some problems within NATO.  But Turkey will continue to be an arbiter in both European and global politics.  I like the attitude of the Bulgarians towards the Turks and the Turks. In fact, the Bulgarians and the Turks in Bulgaria and our fellow Turks are building a good bridge for the relations between the two sides.  I see the future in good contours, in good friendly relations, which are at this stage are like that, the politicians to break up the relations between the nations,  we are afraid of that, but we are afraid that the world will be different.  Let's not forget that the roots of the European Union are secular,  and if we talk about religion, I would say that they are biblical,  which means that it includes the different religions that come from the Bible.  And let's not forget the fact that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is known in Bulgaria.  There are people in Bulgaria.  Popular figure.  This was all for today in Visible and Invisible. The story with Stefan Dechev.  Thank you for being with us. Don't forget to like and subscribe to our YouTube channel, as well as share this video  on Facebook.  See you next time. Subscribe!