The And today my guest is Prof. Iskra Baeva, who is a professor at the University of philosophy,  which studies modern European and Bulgarian history.  Hello, Prof. Baeva, how are you?  Hello, I am fine. I hope your viewers are fine too. Dear God, Mrs. Barma, today we will discuss a topic that is painful for our society and this is the productive process.  Tell me, who gave the idea to create this development process?  First, maybe I should start a little bit later, in time, because the development process, maybe first I should clarify what the development process means. Since the creation of the Bulgarian state in 1878,  a significant Turkish community has been living in it,  as well as an Islamic community,  that is, the Islamized Bulgarians,  who are usually called Hamas or Bulgarian Muslims.  And the Bulgarian state, since its creation,  has had a problem with this community and it is looking for some forms,  political forms,  for their communication,  assimilation, different forms.  And  thanks to this  problem, this problem is connected  with the wars that Bulgaria is leading,  because one part of these  wars, for example the Balkan Wars,  the First Balkan War,  was fought with the Ottoman Empire. During the First World War,  Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire were allies. So there are different forms.  But anyway, the Bulgarian governments, throughout the period of the modern existence of the Bulgarian state,  had a problem with what policy to introduce  in relation to this population.  After the Second World War, things, of course,  have changed radically in every relationship,  including in relation to the Turkish and Muslim population,  because these are two groups that cover each other,  but not completely.  The Turkish and Muslim population, at the beginning of this period, after September 9,  acts on a purely international basis.  They communicate, they are given conditions for their social and economic development, cultural development.  They receive cultural autonomy until the age of 50.  In practice, they have cultural autonomy, they have a school, there are three specialties at the University of Sofia,  which teaches the Turkish language, teachers are taught with them on these subjects.  It is about Turkish Philology, Turkish History the Turkish Mathematics at the University of Sofia.  So this period from September 9 to mid-1950s and a little autonomy and the experience of their cultural education through the Bulgarian educational system.  The Bulgarian educational system is being established, but at the same time various privileges are given to the education of Bulgarian education, to encourage them to enter high schools,  especially universities and other universities,  especially the teachers,  to encourage them to access the Turkish and Muslim population  in this pursuit of their education, creating more favorable conditions for their labor integration.  Of course, there is still a doubt in the effectiveness of this settlement to the Bulgarian state.  This is the reason why in the army they are not included as a general group, but to be in labor forces,  meaning serving the military service not with weapons in hand, but through labor.  In other words, this policy of, on the one hand, communicating, on the other hand,  suspicion and the desire to be violent, in the end, change, has been happening throughout this period,  with the accent being shifted in one direction.  Also, it is worth mentioning  another constant characteristic  of the attitude of the Bulgarian state  towards the Bulgarian Turks and the Bulgarian Muslims,  and these are the solar waves.  These solar waves are three times more in the Third Bulgarian kingdom with three of these waves.  In the period after 1944, there are two waves.  The first is in the year of 451.  This is a significant wave.  130,000 Bulgarian Turks, Muslims and the village are in this period.  And finally, this wave has stopped  from crossing the border with Turkey.  It is caused by collectivization,  by the cooperation of the land  and it has economic characteristics,  but the idea of the Bulgarian Turks  to return to what is called the motherland,  I would say to the Turks,  because a significant part of this population is born,  and not only that, his ancestors were born in Bulgaria,  so the mother-mother is a more common concept.  If we have to make a comparison,  to make it clearer,  this is similar to the attitude of the Bessarabians and other Bulgarians in Ukraine and Moldova  has such great similarities to the motherland of Bulgaria,  although several generations of Bulgarians lived and lived there.  Of course, the situation is more different in Bulgaria,  because the motherland of the Bulgarian Turks is on the border of Bulgaria.  And besides all that, this is a country that for many centuries has conquered Bulgarian territories.  And this is a big, strong country. The threats exist throughout the period. After the Second World War and especially after 1952-1953,  these traditional threats are being added to the fact that  from 1955 Bulgaria is a member of the Bolshevik League,  and shortly before that Turkey is a member of NATO's North Atlantic Party.  And so we are are divided into two sides  of two military-political blocs  who oppose each other.  Things are not only internal-political,  but also external-political.  In this situation of these complex relations  comes what we know as  the imposition of violence of these complex relations, comes what we know as  the first name, the name of the violence  of the Bulgarian Roma or Gypsies, as you wish to call them.  Then follows a process  in the 70s, also the violence  of the Bulgarian Muslims, the Comas.  But all that I am saying  is not a revolutionary process.  This is the long way to the revolutionary process.  The revolutionary process is called the large-scale action  which the Bulgarian state undertook in the late 1984,  from December 1984 to March 1985,  within three and a half months,  the name of about 850,000 Bulgarian citizens of the Turkish state was changed to Bulgarian. Bulgarian and not only Slavic, but also European names.  This is called a production process because it has its own basis.  That is why it is called a production process, because the basis is a group is not only Bulgarian historians, but also Bulgarian ethnologists,  archaeologists, ethnologists, demographers.  A group that claims, that creates a document, their own legislative process.  They work on it after the name is done, but this is the ideological basis of the process.  According to their research, which is true, which in the Bulgarian state, which in the long years of Ottoman rule  was not only Islamized, but gradually lost its language and national identity. This thesis, and there is even another argument, one of the colleagues says that this population, these are the upper tribes, whose lands were conquered, and the opposition of these tribes remained suppressed over time.  These tribes, the heirs of the tribes,  more easily accepted not only Islam, but also the ethnic self-awareness of the new ruler of these lands, the Ottoman Empire.  Of course, these are the ones that would be difficult to fully document.  But I just explain the idea. The idea is that these 850,000, I repeat this number 850,000,  because there were, especially in the first years of the transition, incredible propaganda-based, in my opinion, that the Bulgarian Turks are  million and a half, two million, one million and a half, but this absolutely does not convince me,  they are 850 thousand or in other words, they are somehow under 10% of the Bulgarian population and  despite this, they seem dangerous. In fact, this is the motivation for the attempt to solve this issue through national renaming seems dangerous.  The population of this region is higher than that of the Bulgarians.  I have seen diagrams that in the future, until the beginning of the 21st century, this population can even exceed the Bulgarian population.  Now, first of all, how much of this explanation can be accepted?  It is difficult to accept, because the Islamized Bulgarians preserve their language and their ethnic consciousness.  And it is difficult to explain why some people keep it,  and others, the larger part, do not keep it.  I think that there is no doubt among Bulgarian historians  that it is about Turks who, after the liberation of Bulgaria,  have not occupied Bulgarian lands, they have stayed.  And I must say that they have stayed among those who have no reason to fear.  These are not the ruling Turks,  these are the poor Turks who live in villages, mainly in mountainous and sub-lake areas,  who live like the Bulgarians and who have no motive to leave the Bulgarian lands and go to the Ottoman Empire.  So, up and down, this is what things look like upside down, before this decision is taken.  This decision is very strange, but it is not in the documentation.  We have seen, not only us, but also a number of other researchers.  We have seen two thick tones of 500 pages each, with documents on the development process.  We have seen all the documents of the Central Committee of the State Archives, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Archives.  The other investigators have not found a document in which to make a suggest that this action should be carried out in a strange way.  First, in December in Krdjali, where Georgi Tannis, the Secretary of the Circle Committee of the BKP, launches this campaign by naming the Turks in the Krizhalinski district  and sent some reports to the Central Committee, which reported the operation.  The naming went very well, the population met the change of names with Rado, with Khora, are some data that we can hardly confirm,  we can hardly agree with them.  But anyway, these information, how easily we have passed this,  are probably the reason for this process should continue in North-Eastern Bulgaria,  because this is happening in the late 1984 and early 1985,  and the rest of the Bulgarian Turks are in the early 1985.  The decision of the Central Committee is not to carry out the change, but to approve it after the process was carried out.  This process is very strange, because it was in 1984-1985. Ten years earlier, in the first of August, 1975, the final act of the Council on the Security of Europe was signature in this document. According to this document, not only the separation of Europe is resolved,  not only the organization of the Union of Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, is created,  then the OSCE Council of the Union of Cooperation,  but there are three main directions towards the agreement. The first is a political agreement for the improvement of the political opposition,  the second is economic, again.  The third, however, is for human rights, for the freedom of movement of people,  for the freedom of movement of ideas.  In it, the essential element is the preservation of human rights and civil rights.  Ten years later, such a drastic violation of human rights is really very strange.  My explanation is that the end of his life, claimed that the development process is what will remain.  This is his historical mission, his historical contribution to the history of Bulgaria,  because according to him, the development process will lead to the creation of a single Bulgarian nation.  This is what he calls the result of the development. A single Bulgarian nation. The reason to do so at that time  is, in my opinion, the fact that  in the early 80s Bulgaria was a  very bad image in Europe and the world.  It was a series of divisions  in international relations,  which, apart from the practice that really exists,  are also due to the fact that at this time this is the administration of President Ronald Reagan of the United States,  which adopts the policy of so-called differentiated relations in relation to that the Eastern bloc, the countries from the Eastern bloc,  the United States, adopt a differentiated policy.  In those countries that are most likely to implement reforms and are moving away from the Soviet Union,  their policy is to be well-intentioned, to create economic and cultural and political ties,  or, in other words, attracting them to the West.  While these countries, which are loyal allies of the Soviet Union,  they are being attacked in every way.  They are being attacked more than the Soviet Union itself.  Because the Soviet Union is a big and powerful country,  and it is difficult for it to be attacked,  Bulgaria plays the role of a testimony of what happens to these countries that are close to the Soviet Union.  They attack in every way. There is, of course, a reason for this in the murder of George Markov,  of the writer George Markov in London, on the bridge of Waterloo.  A murder that is still not fully revealed,  so I will not be silent.  The accusation against Bulgaria  that it is engaged in trade with the enemy,  as it was then called,  for terrorist organizations,  only that terrorist organizations in the United States  then called national security movements in Africa and Latin America.  These arms sales are faster for such movements, for the government, and so on. in drug trafficking, you have the Cptagon, these are such chemical-made drugs,  not exactly drugs, then the so-called Puglarska Sreda was born,  in the attempt to kill, the relationship between Pope John Paul II,  which I hope everyone knows is already established by the United States  in order to be a threat to Bulgaria.  And so the image of Bulgaria and the attitude of the West to Bulgaria is so bad  that probably Todor Zhivkov decided that in this situation he could do something even worse,  because he had no way to silence the additional relationship and he decided that in this situation he could do something even worse,  because he had no way of committing additional crimes.  He took this inexplicable action for this period, at least for the 80s,  of such a drastic violation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens and Turkish origin.  A violent change of name.  Many times after that, the country is attacked, questions are asked.  The thesis of Bulgaria is that they voluntarily changed their names,  and the Western senators say that it is possible to immediately  850,000 people to ask to change their names.  You understand, the thesis is very strange. But this action, as I said, is extremely large, 850,000.  In fact, there are very serious consequences, all-territorial consequences, for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian society,  for the Bulgarian economy, for the relations with other Balkan countries, for the relations with the allies of the Warsaw Pact,  even if they want to have relations with the Soviet Union,  because we should not forget that when the action was taken in late 1984, in 1985,  the Soviet Union, the beginning of the Soviet Union, was Konstantin Chernenko, who is in such a state of emergency that there is no way to deal with what is happening in the Soviet Union in the Eastern Bloc.  But during March-March 1985, he was the head of the National Security Council, which has a completely different point of view on the location and role of the Eastern bloc and the Soviet Union in the world,  and which, for whom the Bulgarian electoral process is a big problem,  because Gorbachev is for the improvement of the opposition, for the establishment, for the preservation of human rights,  and suddenly, in some way, you have to defend the Union of Bulgaria, in which these rights are a drastic violation.  This additionally creates a problem for the Bulgarian leadership, even with the Soviet Union.  We can talk a lot about what happens.  I have to remind you that the development process begins in 1984, the beginning of 1985.  It continues until the summer of 1989.  Usually, in the public consciousness, when the development process is said,  everyone thinks that it is about the summer of 1989, but that is not the case.  It continues for another four years before it ends.  And it has its development,, of course, its end in 1989,  in the course of the general changes that took place in the Eastern Bloc,  which is a little later in Bulgaria, but they are real.  Among them are Konstantin Trenchev and Ahmed Dogan,  who claim that not only with the development process,  but also with what they call a big excursion with the settlement of the  established president of 1989, they actually helped to take away the I have to ask, because a few days ago I watched an interview of Mr. Osman Oktay,  who was a former deputy chairman of the DPR.  He has information that the reproductive care process started from KGB?  No, this is not true.  Because KGB, as you said, has nothing in common with us.  The way in which the Soviet Union solves its problems with its Islamic citizens,  there are many Islamic republics,  which are such Islamic, is completely different.  It is more likely the opposite, more likely Todor Zhivkov is trying to show the Soviet Union  how one of the ways of solving this problem can be solved.  And, as I told you, he started it with Chernenko and does not expect that at the beginning of the Soviet Union a person with completely different views would soon come,  so there is nothing in common with the NKGB.  Even more so, for the Soviet Union, this campaign presents a problem in all respects.  And in the conversations that the association has with Mikhail Gorbachev, he asked all of them to help in the Soviet Union in the fight against the relations between Bulgaria and Turkey,  in the fight against the international attacks that are against Bulgaria.  Gorbachev agreed, but half of the time, and in all casesian society there is a belief that everything bad comes from the HGB after the state security, but at least the historical documents and the historical pathology do not show it in this case categorically. But they have started to change their Turkish names, their Bulgarian names,  and they have started to say that the protests are state security planning to raise the riots?  The decision is political, but of course the state security is experiencing a serious loss in connection with the European Union,  because the role of state security is to monitor the mood of the Bulgarian society.  It is paying special attention to the Bulgarian Turks throughout the whole time.  It pays special attention because, as I said at the beginning, the Bulgarian Turks have a Turkish state on the border with Bulgaria.  There are, of course, proven links between the Turkish special services with the Bulgarian Turks and their organizations in Bulgaria.  And for this reason, the state has many employees, so to speak, the Turkish population.  Ahmed Dogan is one of them, Osman Oktay is another of them. The because the state security documents were unsecreted.  But what happens with state security follows the process of implementation.  I have read this in the state security documents.  They are very saddened by the fact that their mass employees in this community,  the Svastava Community, refuse to cooperate with the State,  certainly because they feel terribly offended.  Ahmed Dogan is one of them.  They feel terribly offended.  They say, we worked for this country, we are not loyal to this country,  but look what you did to us.  You forced us to change our names without warning us. without any warning, and there is a mass of people who remain without an informant or a partner in this community.  What is the opposite? Yes, it exists even before the process of naming, then the first victims were given, there were about ten of them  in this opposition.  It is also true that  the action is so large-scale  that the participation of the army is imposed,  not only on the domestic security,  not only on the internal ones,  but also on the army in the implementation  of this action.  It is also true, however, that the state  manages to take all the documents of this population in a very short period of time, three months, which requires administrative potential.  It must be said, especially from today's point of view, that for bad. But then, after that, illegal Turkish organizations began to be created,  which resisted the pre-trial trial.  Now, here I have to say that the first bomb attacks were carried out before the trial,  they are in August 1984, so it is obvious that such a complaint had a pre-requirement.  Then, however, a list of non-legal organizations was created, the most famous of which is the  Turkish National Freedom Movement in Bulgaria, which in turn refers to Ahmed Dogan as one of the most prominent Turks in the Bulgarian state,  because he completed his philosophy,  he is a doctorate, an aspirant to the University of Sofia,  he writes a dissertation and offers him to write the program of the party,  of this organization, the Bulgarian National Association of the Movement,  he does it and in this organization was discovered very quickly  and he was sentenced by the process for the organization of the Bulgarian National Liberation Movement.  He was sentenced and he was put in prison.  He left the prison immediately after the changes.  But seeing the prison, he responded responded and sent a message. One of these messages from May 1989 was to ask the Bulgarian state's desire to free itself from its population,  but also its own desire to leave for Turkey.  So, state security,  the development process also caused damage to this type of activity,  to the network of employees.  Is there a connection between the attacks in Bolnovo, in the airport, in Varna, with the development process.  Of course, there is no doubt.  Still, these attempts were made by the Turks with the view of being a damaged Bulgarian state,  because it violates their rights.  But as I said before, this started even before that, before the development process.  Or in other words, this opposition of the Bulgarians and the Turks started even before that.  This is a long process.  In fact, it started with a campaign to rename the children of mixed families.  A family between Bulgarians and Turksic or Turkish and Bulgarian,  in which up to that point the children's names were freely chosen  and some kept their names.  First, the renaming with these mixed families began.  And then there was this reaction,  and then the preparation of these bomb attacks began.  So yes, the campaign is a drastic violation of the rights of the Bulgarian Turks,  they have a free choice, but they also correspond with the campaign,  with the attempt to be punished by part of the Bulgarian population, which is a certain term for terrorism,  because there is terrorism when your action is not directed at your enemy,  but at foreign victims, to innocent citizens, with the aim of achieving their goal from their opponent. These bombings and these organizations are aimed at the Bulgarian state,  but the bombings are aimed at innocent citizens.  You know, the carriages are full of mothers and daughters who have no fault,  but this is what happens in such big crisis processes as a re-establishment process.  And according to the services, who are the organizers of the May events?  The May protests are a new stage, actually this is the final stage of the development process,  because then, you know, for these four years of the development process, at first there is a counterattack,  then things calm down and the last stage of state security begins in the Turkish environment,  to organize this, to build farms, to build new houses.  In other words, the Bulgarian Turks are reconciling.  This is the state-owned company at the same time, especially in the later years,  that the Turks live a war life.  On the one hand, they officially have Bulgarian names,  they dress in non-traditional clothes, but uno in their homes, they use their old names.  But since there is a peace-making, a adjustment to the situation, things change in the early 1989,  because then, within the framework of this process, which you talked about a little,  the Council of the Security and Security of Europe, a series of conferences are held.  The last one, from the year 1989 in Paris, is on human rights, on human rights.  And before this conference, it was decided that all citizens of European countries  should receive a passport and have the right to travel outside the borders, to return.  In other words, Bulgaria, which is part of this process, is forced to give a passport to all its citizens.  And this gives the perspective for the Bulgarian Turks that they are not doomed to live in Bulgaria  and that they are not doomed and accept what has happened. At this moment, it should be said that there are also political factors,  unofficial political factors, so to speak,  from one side the dissident movement, which was created in 1988  and in the beginning of 1989 this organization,  the Club for Supporting the the Voice and the Development of Bulgaria was already existing,  which tried to unite the small presidential organization of the state and which came out with such a declaration of protection of the rights of citizens,  which in the spring of 1989 came out with a signature, which 130 people, intellectuals sign, in which the signature, submitted to the National Assembly,  demands that the right of Bulgarians to choose their names.  They support the Bulgarian Turks.  On the other hand, as Ahmed Dogan said,  he manages to send a letter from the prison,  in which there are five points, with which he made the organizational processes that are related to the Bulgarian Turks.  The request, of course, was to return to the right, but one of these requests is free movement,  that is, the right to settle in Turkey.  And so, in the course of this process, this whole process of transformation in Europe and the world, especially in the Eastern Bloc,  in the end, the Turks feel supported by the Bulgarian dissidents, by them themselves, by external factors,  because this was a campaign, you are from another generation, you don't remember, but I am from the generation that remembers well,  a big campaign in the Western radio stations in support of the Bulgarian Turks.  And in the course of these changes that are taking place in the development process,  the new organizations are emerging, which are organized by the Turks, who are in power.  New human rights activists are also in May protests.  There are major fights among the Turks, demanding to return their names.  The issue of the names of Bulgar Bulgarian Turks was raised a lot.  And then, in the end, the decision was taken by many of the associations,  which on May 29, 1989, came out with a message on the only radio then,  the only television then, in which it says that all Bulgarian citizens will receive a passport, that they can travel to other countries and then return.  It is exactly this emptiness.  At the same time, I urge them not to forget that the graves of their ancestors,  their ancestors, the devils and the bad guys, are in Bulgaria,  that they are Bulgarian citizens.  And with this, in fact, the final stage began,  not only the preparation of the Turkish community for the mass release of Bulgaria,  but in fact this is the end of the revolutionary process,  because, as I will remind you, the revolutionary process is trying to convince the Bulgarian Turks  that they are Bulgarians in the past, with a darkened national consciousness,  with a dim national consciousness that they are actually Bulgarians.  But at the moment when Togor Zhivko says that you can go to Turkey somewhere else,  it means that he has abandoned this basic phase of the development process.  But here, on May 23, we May, the end of this development process is followed, which is declared to be a record.  Yes!  With this speech of Todor Zhitko on the radio and on television, in practice, the end of the development process is set, because he admits, Todor Zhitko admits that these are Bulgarian Turks. And what he did was to call them to leave, but then to call them back, because they are Bulgarian citizens.  In practice, however, what happens is that on the one active people in the Turkish community.  They directly expel them from Bulgaria to Vienna with planes.  These are mostly those who are locked up in a new camp in Belene for dangerous elements. But besides that, they also have the idea to leave Bulgaria to 150,000 Bulgarian Turks,  so that the normal relationship can be restored.  About 150,000 are the settlement of the Volnovs,  49-51st year, if we need to make a parallel. But instead, the organization of the Turkish community itself is very massive  and there is a preparation for the expulsion of 350,000 people.  This means that they must, in addition to receiving passports,  because although the refugee visa only goes an excursion to return, they are actually always going to leave.  Because they sell houses, they save their money from the State Security, sorry, from the State Special Bank. The economists who have been involved in this process, even shared that it is amazing how the Bulgarian banking system has managed to withdraw so much money,  because the Bulgarian Turks who deal mainly with the rural development have large in the second half of August, the Turkish state stopped the expelling and the expelling of 350,000 people.  And a group was formed, which in fact, the tragedy of these people is perhaps the biggest, because they have already sold their property,  they have climbed, they have reached the border and suddenly the border is closed and they stayed on the Bulgarian side of the border,  but there was nowhere to go back.  The tragedy is really huge.  It leads to the isolation of relations between Bulgaria and Turkey.  In Bulgaria there are nationalistic rallies that threaten Bulgaria for this policy.  This continues until the withdrawal of the government from power.  I should also say that even before the withdrawal of the government from power on 10 November,  there was a disappointment among the Bulgarian Turks who had settled for Turkey.  About 90,000 of them returned to Bulgaria,  dissatisfied with the conditions that the Turkish state offered them.  With the withdrawal of Todor Zhivkov, things changed radically,  because the BKP itself, which has withdrawn Todor Zhivkov,  admits that this legislative process is a crime against the civil rights of the Bulgarian Turks.  And finally, on December 29, 1989, the Central Committee of the BKP took the decision to cancel the process  by returning the names of the Bulgarian Turks.  This decision was approved for the first time by the opposition that had started between the BKP and the new political forces.  It was approved by the GELO-GELO, the CDS members, but at the same time it was a dissatisfaction with the Bulgarians from mixed regions.  Razgrad, Kyrgyzstan, even something like the Republic of Razgrad was announced, which said that they would not agree with the return of the names of the Turks.  Of course, this decision was taken from her, it was turned into state policy by Georgi Atanasov,  who is now the Minister-President.  But this decision in practice, first in the legislative process and after the return of the names,  in practice creates conditions for something new in Bulgarian politics,  which did not exist before, namely the creation of a political party of Bulgarian forces,  that is, a DPC.  There was no such thing in modern Bulgarian history.  There was an organization, there were attempts for a toran,  there was, as they say, the Bulgarian Nationalation Movement Bulgaria, but there was no political party.  It was created in January, the beginning of January 1990 and as we know, it is still existing today with a lot of good organizational and political success. One last question to ask you. Why in the pre-election campaign DPS continues to say to the villages that if not DPS, They will rename their names again and scare people.  They will do it.  This is political propaganda, as you know, because when you have political parties, they protect their interests.  There is another myth that is spreading in the DPC, that our ethnic myth in Bulgaria was saved by Ahmed Dogan.  I assure you that there was never any danger for the ethnic peace in Bulgaria during this period.  If there was such a danger,  because the bloodshed in Yugoslavia was in Sochi,  if there had to be such a danger,  because he had to enter either in 1984-1985, when the development process started, or when it ended in 1989.  I think that the Bulgarians and the Bulgarian Turks are still tolerant enough to avoid any danger from a curbside solution of the problem.  But for me, and I continue to confirm it, the creation of the the DPS is harmful for Bulgarian politics,  because it capsulates a community that should be integrated into the Bulgarian society.  This is the Bulgarian Turks, the Bulgarian Muslims, because this is the DPS's electorate.  There are different interests, different socialities, different beliefs.  They should find their place in the Bulgarian parties,  in the other Bulgarian parties, because the DPC is a Bulgarian party,  and not to be represented by a community that somehow gives them the opportunity for alternatives.  They are doomed to follow the DPC's policy, because they are afraid of what you said,  that if they do not support the DPC, they will be violated again.  While you, as citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, like all other citizens, should seek the protection of ideas according to your own concerns.  So in the legislative process there is this bad evidence that will create conditions for the party of the Bulgarian Turks will be created.  I know that in Europe there is such a tendency, such a practice of creating ethnic parties,  but I do not think this is a positive practice and we see it in what is happening in Western European countries.  Citizens should act in the political as citizens, not as ethnic groups, not as members of one or another ethnic group.  You know that in Bulgarian politics there are Jews in various organizations, there are Armenians in various organizations,  and this has not hurt their civil rights, on the contrary, in this way they express them. And that's why I think that the creation of the DPC was dangerous for Bulgarian democracy,  but this is already a fact, it cannot be overcome, it cannot be avoided,  because this is already a fact and this is one of the most negative consequences of the educational process.  and this is one of the most negative consequences of the reproductive process. Thank you very much, Professor Baevac, for your invitation to the interview.  I hope that the question has become clear for the reproductive process  and I hope that in the future we will have such good topics for conversation. The topic is not very pleasant, because it is a very traumatic process,  but you should teach us something about tolerance.  Thank you once again, I wish you a good and peaceful evening.  Thank you too, all the best to you.