Hello! You are watching the Big Question. I am Ivan Bedrov.  We have headed today's episode – 3 apartments, 2 shacks and 1 hotel.  Where do Peevski and Dugan live?  Probably, the question is about other numbers and bigger ones.  Not only about 3 apartments, 2 shacks and 1 hotel, but also about the question question of where Dogan and Peevski live.  Actually, there were not so many questions about Dogan and about Peevski, there were more unknown questions.  Last month, we, the journalists YouTube, TikTok, Instagram and Facebook  they have almost 900 thousand views in just two weeks and a half.  Just to remind you that in the last parliamentary elections the first two political forces, the first two in general, had so many votes.  That is, we are really talking is a big interest for this topic.  Today we are together with the journalist Genka Shikerova.  Hello, Genka!  Hello!  How are you and your friend and your property register today?  We did not communicate today because we did't have the opportunity to do so.  This is a big exception.  Genka was the journalist who did the main part of the story we published and the investigation of where Delian Peevski lives.  It's not just about curiosity, it's not only about the food or the food where someone lives.  Today we will talk about the specific properties and why this issue is important.  Why two leading politicians who will now, after a few weeks, stop again to seek the trust of their voters,  and then one or two, it depends on the configuration, will want to rule again.  It is good to know where these two live.  And not only that. It is good when they speak, they present some positions.  We should know something more about them.  This is how it is in normal democracies.  So today we will talk not only about specific assets, and quadrature, and rent prices, but also about why this is important in our profession and how exactly we got to the information we present to you.  And so, I already told you, together with Genka Shikerova, short answer, do you have where Ahmet Dogan and Dalyan Peevski live today?  I don't know about either of them.  And here, our viewers, probably, now be careful not to laugh, because our viewers would probably say,  why do you ask them so much? What do they answer?  Nothing.  This is a short answer. It is not a natural communication. I have a connection with you, with the people from the editorial office,  not with you in the official form.  We have talked about the fact that we have been looking for answers to the question  where and how they live.  I was a bit distracted because I was calling on the phone.  But so far we have not found any.  This is also something that most of our viewers probably do not know.  The way we try to communicate, but in fact we do not communicate with most of the people who see the news.  Because the most normal thing is to ask someone, if not directly, but if there are bigger organizations for these people.  There are people who do this work, whether they are press centers, media advisors.  But especially with Mr. Peski, there is a wall there.  We have a wall for many years and probably many colleagues journalists have tried to ask questions about what is not there and we never get an answer.  We are so used to the fact that we forget to do what is our duty.  We just keep asking.  No one picks up the phone, no one returns an email afterwards.  You, for example, often joke that you have a part in which you communicate with yourself. That was the joke I had a while ago, which I forgot to tell you.  I wrote to myself and I didn't wait for an answer, because everything is from one side of the chat.  Okay. How did we decide to ask ourselves the question of where Delian Peevski lives.  How did we get there?  The story begins with the exhumation of Ahmed Dogan from the buildings he lived in.  It is difficult for me to use the word residence, simply because I feel more at in the living room, because I miss the moment when I see the buildings in Boyana, the so-called sarays, and the sea to look for Ahmed Dogan, where he lived, where he is now.  The topic of the DPR,  while his supporters, party members, most likely live and use much more modest housing.  In fact, until September 1, if I'm not mistaken, it was the day when national television reported that Ahmed Dogan had left the so-called Saray in Rosenec and we saw the first shots from the inside.  Before that, we knew how these buildings looked from the outside.  For example, I was walking along the old Belovodski path and I heard the bells.  I don't know what to pronounce the sound of the The places that Ahmed Dogan lived in, which are not accessible to us.  Interestingly, the building on Rosenec, I followed it from the moment when it was not connected to Ahmed Dogan.  It had started its construction and not allowed to go there.  There was a barrier that was placed at the very beginning of the road,  leading to the wider area where the beach was located.  Let's imagine that.  In the warm weather, you go to the beach with your children.  Yes, that to the beach. Yes, that's true.  And at the moment, this is the area where I had access to in practice.  It was much wider, farther from the place we saw on the common plan  above the building.  And I really had absolutely no visibility of what was being built.  There were no tables, because usually when there is construction,  there are tables with the investor, the period in which the building should be built, what was being built.  Do you remember which year you tried to go to the beach?  It was about 10 years ago when I tried to go to the beach, or something like that.  Exactly. As far as I remember, in 2014, the first reports came that something was being built there.  Yes, and it was very interesting for me, because they told me that they would not let me go there again,  to see what was happening.  And from then on, this building became interesting to me.  The only way to see this building was to go to the sea,  or to wait for satellite images to be published on Google,  to see exactly what happened. The first ones who went to the water were from the website Bivou.  They had not yet been divided with BERT.  Then there was a lot of noise about the companies, what exactly is going on, what kind of construction is going on.  But Dogan was not yet present as a name and as a future inhabitant of these buildings.  We started this topic, which is very interesting, but we will return to it a little later and now we will jump over this topic quickly.  We saw at one point what these buildings look like from the were like and Ahmed Dogan was kicked out.  Why? If you are interested, you will find out in a bit.  But this is the moment when we talked in the editorial office every morning, as we meet.  And we expected that in the next few days, after the big national TV stations showed the Saray TV and the topic was being talked about,  they will show us where Dalian Peevski lives.  We are a small editorial office, we do what we can, we choose.  We often have to choose which 9 topics to discuss, which 10 topics to cover,  because we are small people and we have little resources.  And even if we cover something, we will do it than the big media with tens, maybe hundreds of journalists.  We expected to see in the next day, the next week, to see some kind of report where Delian Peski lives.  But I did not see. I do not know, maybe I did not watch regularly. I do not know if you saw.  I watched regularly, but I did not see. There was not even such a question.  And all this happens against the context of the declarations that are being issued to the Anti-Corruption Commission,  where the property, income and so on are described.  Who and what does he have, he declares every year.  Yes, he declares what he has and it was already clear what Peevski has, what he has declared. He was very interested in journalism.  We are talking about a simple reporter's reflex, not something very difficult to achieve as an idea.  And now I will reveal something from their family, and after they do it, I have to do it.  And how did we get to these properties, which we will show you in a moment, where Dalian Peevski lives, or we assume that he uses it as a house. If I may use the word here in very Bacallian terms, simply because we do not have access to some incredible databases,  we use public information,  what a regular journalist uses is not to throw us folders, ideas and all that material,  not to open the doors of the residences to which we have access,  not to invite us. We have access to the You wanted to make it more detailed, to make it all simple, to make them respond.  But it was done in the Bakal method.  That's the way it is.  I was afraid at some point of the course, but it was possible.  Because of this reason, remembering what is written in the years,  those who have been involved was written in the years, those who were involved in this most,  a non-governmental organization that existed around 2013, called the protest network,  they had and supported a site called No Resharski and were investigating the property of the Delian Peevski. What they described was a network of properties,  a network of companies that belonged to Delian Peevski and his mother.  Delian Peevski, who, just to remind you,  was for the most part, with one exception,  let's say for several months, when he was a lawyer, he was on a state budget.  His mother was...  I just wanted to remind you. She was a investigator, a deputy, a deputy minister.  And the three of them in the state service.  Yes, and one day he was the director of DANS.  Yes, he was.  His mother was the director of TOTO.  Before that, we don't know what she was doing.  I checked her in the registries and there is really no information to lead you to think that the family has a lot of serious capital to buy real estate.  As the director of TOTO, I don't know what the salary is, associations take more than they take, let's say,  if you are directly to the Ministry of Sports.  What they discover on the protest network is that there is a question of the cost of the very luxurious things  that they use in different companies.  They describe them, they take pictures of them, they go there, they research photos, public information, offshore companies.  And what I decided to do, because the public has also known  that Peevski, one of his sanctioned companies, Interest, which is his company.  He had a lot of property, which at one point was sold.  I decided to see if it is not a question of the same property. The only thing...  Just to add a little to this story.  In 2021, Dalyan Paevski was sanctioned for corruption by the USA,  a year later by the UK, which in practice means that he has no right not have a bank card, bank account or to operate with them.  Because every institution that works with a sanctioned person, risks losing the right to work with the US dollar.  Since the sanctions are imposed by the company sold its assets. We can assume that this was to facilitate Mr. Pevski's operations.  And you decided to check whether he was living under rent with his own assets.  Yes, but we are thinking about the bank card only.  It should be like that. It is a bit wishful thinking.  Yes, because this is a topic that we have started to check.  We have sent various inquiries to the institutions.  Is he entitled to do so?  Because from his declaration it is clear that he has debts in the left and in the euro.  One dollar has disappeared after the sanctions.  There are properties for which he pays a lot of rents.  In general, he is living his life in a normal way, at least that's what it looks like on documents.  At the same time, from the meeting, including the Magnitsky Commission,  which was to one of the previous National Assembly, of which I no longer remember the numbers,  then some very scary things were being said things being said about the country's financial system  if any bank would pay to Peevski.  It turned out that this is not the case.  But this is another topic. You printed the P.Evski's property declaration,  you looked at the properties that belonged to his company, Interest,  and what did you start to put information on top of each other?  Yes, to see where the cross-check came from.  Actually, for four properties, the cross-check came of the square is measured. I assume that the next step is to remove the column with the square from the next decorations,  so that there is more of the square.  Yes, it is better to write that there is an amount, there is a car, or there is no amount, there is no car, period.  Probably, so that no one can do such things.  Okay, we will look at them one by one, these matching amounts, but we will start with the biggest thing, the most popular.  Mr. Dele Ampeevski was in contact with the Hotel Berlin for many years.  Most of our viewers have not visited the Hotel Berlin, they have not passed by it, because it is not in such a prominent position. Maybe they don't know him at all. But back in 2013, when Deleon Peevski was elected, even just for a day,  as the chairman of the National Security Agency,  and this caused 400 days of protests, after the government's request for a leave,  back then there were such small protests, like the flash mob, in front of this hotel in Berlin, because it was said that Dalyan Peevski lives there.  I even remember that one of the representatives of the protest network mentioned that this is a group of people who to swim in the pool of the Hotel Berlin.  At that time, the access was only to the pool.  You couldn't stay in the hotel, but you could go to swim.  Later, the pool was closed, and if you look at the Google Maps, this building is still designated as a hotel, but it says Permanently closed.  It was there recently. What is there?  A lady even filmed me.  Because we are filming.  She is not a receptionist.  She is not a receptionist. She went out, she took the camera, the receptionist. The woman is in the room, the operator is in the room,  Miroslav Mikhailov is in the room,  and he continues his journey.  But this is not a hotel anymore.  This is a closed complex,  which is sold as an apartment.  There is an ad,  which you can see in the footage  we have published.  There are ads for the sale of apartments.  There are ads for the sale of apartments.  When you go to the website...  It's not a small thing, it's not a family hotel.  We are talking about a big hotel.  Yes, it's big as a complex.  It is advertised with serious security measures.  Silence, tranquility.  What is on the website as information is that 2,000 euros per square meter is the price of the housing post is 2000 euros per square meter.  There are also taxis for subsidies, which are paid in such closed housing. from the protest network, they had also filmed  that according to them  the house that Peevski lived in  was on the last floor of the hotel  and in order to have no visibility  of the house, a live fence  was made of plants  that are high up, so that they can hide the sight of the person who is moving, what he is doing and so on.  What I managed to understand is that until recently, Peevskiy had made his meetings in the Hotel Berlin.  Vizhdi Rashidov, by the way.  I heard it on TV. V they saw each other drinking coffee.  Yes, I think that Cvetan Cvetanov was the first former Minister of the Interior, the second man in the coat of arms,  who publicly said that he had seen the two-thousand-ir Tzatzarov and Borislav Tzarafov.  Sotir Tzatzarov is the former chief prosecutor, at the moment he is the chief prosecutor.  Borislav Tzarafov is the current chief prosecutor or the one who performs the functions.  I am just adding to the list for the people who are not so attentive.  But, let's go back to the main question.  Why do we do this? Why do we tell people all this?  Why is it important for a politician to know where and under what conditions he lives?  I remember that years ago, maybe more than 10 years ago,  I was in Berlin and there, near the river, in front of the museums, there was an old yellow building.  In front of it, as we say, there was a small police booth and a police car.  And then my relatives told me that Angela Merkel was living there.  At that time Angela Merkel was the Chancellor of Germany, a very strong figure, and it can be said that he was the head of Europe at that time.  Everyone knows where he lived, even the neighbours know what time and day he would leave the block and go to the supermarket.  In Bulgaria, we are no exception. The long-time prime minister Boiko Boris with a desire, showed his house in the bank where he lived.  Even politicians go there for official meetings. This is not a secret.  A previous prime minister, Ivan Kostov, did not show his house in Dragalevci, but he has spoken many times, and everyone can go and see and know where he lives. A former prime minister, Kiril Petkov, also showed and filmed outside and inside.  He is in the center of Sofia, on Tsar Ivan Shishman street, his apartment.  All this is known. Not only in the world, but also in Bulgaria.  The only one who is not known is Mr. Dalian Peeski.  This still surprises me. I don't know if you are used to this thought.  There is no way to get used to this thought.  From time to time you come to me, ask me a question and you don't get an answer.  This is the cycle that is repeated at least until now. I know that we have already talked about you in the last episodes, but now I would like you to tell our viewers the places you visited.  When you put this square on the apartments that Delian Peevski uses for rent, with those that have been his property until recently,  he identifies three places in Sofia.  Four. You said that there are four properties, but two of the map until very soon. She identifies three places in Sofia. Four.  She says that there are four properties, but two of them are one to another.  Yes, if you have a pre-existing property, yes.  Yes, that's how it comes out.  Let's start with the first one.  Actually, three of these four are in the Simionov district.  But the first thing that she identifies is on Zlatan Vek Street in the Simionov district.  What did she see on Zlatan Vek Street in the Simionov district?  Zlatan Vek Street was actually marked as the second source of information. It was quite a coincidence that I happened to be at a protest in February  by a former dancer from Dans, who was protesting in front of the house of Delian Peevski in Simeonovo.  In front of this building.  So, from two places, in some way, specifically for this...  So, one person was protesting in front of...  Well, he was organizing a protest.  And there were him and two or three other women.  At least, this is seen in the video.  They were protesting there.  For what reason did they go there?  This protest was not reflected in the video.  There is a video on YouTube, if you want to watch it and understand more.  The building itself is very big.  I am really curious. These people go there to protest because the security guards block the streets, because they are blocked by the police.  They protested against PS.  And his role probably in the whole state.  Yes.  The city of Motse is located on a very narrow street, where you can pass with one car. Two cars can't pass.  What he said in the video during the protest is that there were cars,  which are called Rosen Milenov, I just remembered,  that there are cars of the police in one and the other end of the street.  We have never seen anything like this on the streets.  The property is being preserved.  You can see the green fence that is being built.  It is impossible to see what is happening inside.  At the moment, this property belongs to the company Strojko 2011.  Who owns this company? The company was founded in 2011. The owner of the company is a member of the company  which, by the way,  the company Interest, according to the capital survey,  sells most of its assets.  This is an MMA fighter.  It is not very clear  where he got so much money from,  but anyway, he is the person who becomes the owner of the company.  The property belongs to the company Interest.  The property looked empty, there was no movement inside.  The only visibility that this property has is from above.  Why is it important whether there is or not security?  Because Delian Peevski has always been well protected for at least 10 years.  You can't meet him on the street, but when he comes to the National Assembly, he comes with at least two cars, which, whether they are armored or not, look like this from the outside.  I didn't open the door to see them, especially on some of the cars.  With a lot of security.  Several times during these years, the National Security Service, which provides guards for senior politicians, for the prime minister, for the president, etc.,  has confirmed that he is guarding Delian Peevski,  because there is always some kind of fear for him.  They never tell us, because that is the procedure, but they protect him.  And that is why, when we see that there is a booth somewhere, a barrier,  a car that has parked and is not buzzing with the clock or with any other place,  that is a sign that there may be such a person there.  And now, when he left two weeks ago, you didn't see these signs before two weeks.  No, there wasn't.  Maybe to be more precise, the rent for this assumed square and the property we identified is 219 000 levs. I guess it is a matter of annual rent, not monthly.  But the column in the declaration is not specified.  Yes, it is more logical to say so, but we do not know.  It is not actually declared for months or years.  And how, actually?  That is, where from a deputy payment?  How can a person have so much money for so many rents?  And how, after there is a limit on payment in the amount, you don't have to have bank accounts and cards to pay them?  These are other topics.  This is the property on Zlatanveg Street.  In Simeonovo you go to another place.  Is it close?  It is very close.  It is very close by pedestrian distance.  We are talking about another small street, very narrow.  We were talking about two addresses, Ivan Bogdanov street,  two addresses that are practically one to another.  You see a common fence.  The head of the lion is in one house.  Here is the lion.  The house also looked empty, but when we turned around with the operator,  a boy came out, because one of the smaller houses had doors and windows open.  You could see that the city was open. A young man came out to ask us what we were doing there.  We told him that we were filming the street.  And that's how the conversation started.  You are on the street, you are not in the property.  Exactly. We don't bother anyone.  This property is one of the properties also identified by the protest network in 2013.  What they discovered then is that old photos through Google, from which, when the car that was filming passed,  the security was filmed in the security company by the labels.  These are simple things that are done in such situations when you have no information, you are looking for details,  some coincidences and they discover the connection that they later describe in their material. But they also don't have any information at the moment  if the mother of Delian Peevski is living in this property,  because the information they have at the moment is that she is abroad for the most time.  So, so far we have properties that we showed, which according to the declaration of the Peevs and the history of his properties coincide with properties that he said he used for rent, that he lived there for rent, but there are no traces of a person living there currently.  No, no.  That's the way it is. But there are food boxes. You have to be prepared to have someone to meet you and send you food.  It's not just to call a call and say that you are looking for Mr. Peevski.  These properties, to be more precise, are worth 126,000 and 28,000 leva for a year.  And the first one was 219,000 leva?  Yes, the first one was 219,000 leva.  And the second one? I am sorry that I wrote them down.  I know that you will sum them up. The second one was 126,000 leva and the third one was 28,000 leva.  Now let me see if I can count without the calculator.  And the third one was?  28,000 leva. But we have another one. We will talk about it in a moment.  Ok, but roughly speaking, we are at 370 000.  Mr. Pevskiy declares that within one year he pays at least that much for rent.  370 000.  Ok, but how much more additional 155 000 levs?  More than half a million, but we won't talk about that now.  We won't talk about that, because these are only the four properties that we assume are connected to him.  In total, there are nine properties declared, so we have to add some more amounts, which are not small at, plus the cars that are used for rent.  I can't tell you the total amount, because I don't have the list, but the declaration is public.  I'm trying to imagine it, that's why I kept quiet.  If you use, regardless of whether you are a tenant or an owner, but you live in five places, in four, what kind of schedule do you need to use?  I don't know, during the day, during the week?  And you want to visit them all at the same time?  Well, he has declared that, right? Within one year.  Or maybe the declaration is not true.  Okay, but we can speculate until the end of the world. In the Simeonovo district there were these two addresses, one has one property, the other two.  But you went a little further, in another district, which is a little in the other direction, to Gorna Banya.  What did you find there?  For me, it was the most interesting there.  Because if we talk about the Sarajevo, we are talking about a built-up street.  A visible street with a barrier.  At the moment, because it is like a T-shaped crossroad.  It is located in a fence and there is a terrible view of the fields below.  But there is nothing below. It looks like a hill.  But I couldn't get in.  It is a little higher, so you have a little more than the other person. Yes, I was a bit higher.  I was not allowed to enter the house and not tell anyone that I was breaking the privacy of the person.  I reached this barrier. If we stop the video here, what we see on the left is a property that we identified as probably connected to the Delean Pevski to use.  You mean the first town and the big tree behind it?  No, the property on the right.  On the right side, yes.  The house that you see. The left side, where you can see the trees and the greenery, is the other two properties,  which are very interesting, of Nikola and Hristo Krstevi.  I assume they don't tell you anything about them.  They are not rare names, Nikola and Hristo, but there are many people who say that they are from Krstevi.  Yes, but Hristo Krstev is the owner of the company Oline His son Nikola was a member of the 45th National Assembly.  You are talking about Mayoneza, right?  Yes.  In the neighborhood.  This property with the barrier,  this street is actually municipal.  At least in the register it appears as property.  It shouldn't be over-stayed in any way.  If it is over-stayed, there should be some kind of permission from the municipality.  I admit that I didn't get there because we didn't have enough time to ask the municipality.  Can it be over-stayed? Can it not?  But there are municipality advisors who are active at the moment who could ask such questions and understand.  They even have more tools to understand  how much we have this street,  whether it can be rebuilt.  Our material is public, we don't know for how long.  And this is clear, it is not something unknown.  Behind is also another property,  which is a municipal property. we are talking about a property that is intended for a second-class street,  to which the property also has no access.  But wait, before we get to this property, in the frames we show, we see a playground or a tennis court. What exactly is that? Tennis court. I thought it was a football field, but then I was drawn to the description.  We are talking about tennis court.  This tennis court is owned by Nikola Krstev, the former deputy of the team Atakav Narod.  And all of this is behind the fence.  So, we shouldn't imagine Dalyan Pevski playing tennis.  That's what you're telling me now.  I don't know, the neighbours can be invited to play tennis  during their days off.  I have no idea what sport they practice and love.  And they can play whatever song they want, but that's a completely different topic.  Don't provoke me. There's nothing else. And they can release any song they want, but that is a completely different topic.  Don't provoke me.  There is nothing else.  I just wanted to tell you that there are more food stands there than in other places.  Because there is one in the beginning and one a little bit more inside in the street, from the National Assembly, he will go to this place.  The external sources say that he could be inhabited by a protected person.  When I said that the National Assembly would leave it, we come to another interesting topic.  But before that, I need some explanation.  When you behave and live in this mysterious way, when we really try to find out where one of the leading politicians lives in Bulgaria and it is difficult to get to some answers,  it is normal to have all sorts of rumors, all sorts of speculations.  We cannot confirm these rumors, but we have actually heard from the national representatives, who say, they really insist, they do not abandon the building of the National Assembly.  What can this mean? We haven't seen it, because the access to the national cabinet in the former party house is not free for journalists.  You have probably heard about it and seen it in a report on national TV.  But what was published a few months ago by the colleagues from OfNews is that the offices of the former communist leader Todor Zhivkov and one of his deputies Milko Balev,  two offices that are close to each other in the building of the former party house,  are occupied by the former prime minister Boiko Borisov and one of the DPS's presidents, Delian Peevski.  These offices, what we know about them for many years, are not just a room with a small office and a small office for a secretary,  but they also have something like small apartments, that is, a place where Todor Zhivkov and Milko Baliev could stay the night after late night work and sleep there.  We have not seen all this with our own eyes, but the fact is that the people often use the term,  and it doesn't leave the National Assembly.  We are talking about Delian Peerski.  I am sorry for this joke, it was a bit long, but maybe our viewers deserve to know this.  Yes, this is information that we cannot prove, but it is a fact that a large part of the big offices,  so to say, were built during the rooms of the big guys, so to speak,  were built during the communist period in these buildings,  and that there is a special place for rest for every room.  There are suits, they are used to dress up for different situations,  there is a bed where they can rest. That is, some facilities have been created for the fact that it is assumed that these people spend a lot of time there,  they come from meeting to meeting and such house amenities are necessary to be able to fulfill their official duties.  So yes, not only there, but also in other buildings, in the Ministry Council, in the Party House,  I mean the Ministry, there are similar types of rooms in the Cabinet.  Okay, with this we can wrap up the topic and close it for now.  We showed you quite specific places and we said several times why this is important and why we are doing it.  Now, if we can go back to the beginning, to the Saray.  The only thing that is certain is that Ahmed Dogan, the honorable leader and one of the summer season he lived in the summer garden of the birth of the Sarajevo-Rosenets.  But this one appeared in Boyana much earlier.  I remember that in 2002-2003, when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was for the first time a part of the government, the government between the NDP and the DPR,  for the first time there were people from the DPR, ministers, many activists from the DPR came to Sofia from all over the country,  because they took positions in the ministries' offices and so on.  And then this building appeared, and then we were told by the journalists we were working with,  who were following the work of the political parties,  that this is an academy, where young leaders of the movement for rights and freedoms will be trained.  At one point the word hotel appeared again, but there has never been a hotel where you can ring the door and ask if there is room for one evening to stay here.  There has never been such a case. He never stayed here. But since then it became known that Ahmed Dogan lived there.  Even, I remember, at one point, Mrs. Emel Etem, the former right hand of Ahmed Dogan,  I can confuse if I say if she was a deputy chairman or not, but she was always close to him, 20 years ago. Even she at one point invited only female colleagues to drink coffee and show them the sheds in Boyana.  Unfortunately, I was from the other side, I didn't get the invitation and I didn't go there.  I had to wait 20 years to see on these sheds look like from the inside.  I assume you haven't been there either.  I haven't been inside.  But it was interesting for you.  I saw the footage.  The voyeurism is characteristic for everyone in such situations.  We are not an aesthetic panel.  We won't discuss whether it has taste or not, but the fact is that they are quite over-polluted,  but it is about big and expensive buildings. Why was Dogan expelled? Aren't they his?  How are things there in terms of ownership, who built it, who paid for it? They are not his, they have never been his.  In the beginning they are a part of the tolerance association.  This is a former building, it was in the original form,  because it has nothing to do with the original form.  As a resting base of the Ministry of Industry,  or as some of the ministries have been called at that time.  They transferred him to this association, which is an association for the DPS,  because he is engaged in training and development of personnel, and so on.  They started to stop him. In fact, if we can say that at some point Dugan was the owner of this building,  indirectly, this happens much later, when he becomes rich,  in 2019, somewhere,  when through a company company where he was working, he became the owner of the Saray in Boyan.  When I asked Danil Papazov, because I had a communication with him about the basis of the project. You were the Minister of Transport in the government of Plamen Oresharski  from the DPS Minister in 2013.  After that, you had a business with Dogan, a big business.  They owned a company together, but at the time you were only the owner of Papazov.  Yes, they became partners at one point. When I asked him what was the reason for Dugan to release the building,  he said that he no longer holds 70% of the company.  We said that Sarayat belonged to Dugan for many years, but he is not on the map.  In the end, he was kicked out of the company.  I assume that the same with Rosenets are the same.  It is the same in Rosenets.  Dugan was never the owner there.  He appears in the same way as a co-owner through a company.  Whose property are the question buildings.  So this is not really Dugan.  If I ask you where we lived in Dugan at the moment...  I don't know where we lived in Dugan.  I have no idea.  We have two empty barns, several properties that we identified,  which look like they are uninhab uninhabited than they do.  We have a hotel where they sell apartments for 2000 euros per square meter, if someone is interested in repeating the price.  And that's how things are. Thank you very much.  They are empty from the bottom of these buildings. We don't know who lives in them at the buildings and what is happening there.  Exactly. We don't know. Did we forget something important?  I think we went through the buildings that are connected to one person and the information we have. And again, for the 13th time probably, why do we believe it is important to talk about these stories?  Because we are talking about politicians who will again on October 27th  stand in front of the Bulgarian voters and seek trust in them,  so that they can claim to rule Bulgaria.  That is, the least they owe us, not the Genka, but to us as Bulgarian citizens, is to know something about them.  Thank you very much, Genka, it was very nice of you.  All of you who watched us, don't forget to listen to the conversations, you can search for the big question on Spotify, Apple Podcasts or Google Podcasts.  All the facts and details that we mentioned here and that we missed in this conversation, you can find in our publications.  You will find the links to them in the description of today's conversation on YouTube.  Thank you for being with us. See you soon and don't believe everything you hear.