The story of the human spirit  Stories of past events, of the power of the human spirit and the powerlessness of the system,  of freedom and its price,  have chosen the truth instead of the lies.  This is their story.  The story of the human spirit The The village of Benkovski is located in the center of the village of Benkovski. I think it was the first time I came here at the age of 5-6 years.  I thought it was the center of the world.  People gathered here on the market and came to the Friday prayer.  The village had 18,000 people. After the people were exiled,  there were about 10,000 people left.  The I was working in the barracks in Sofia. I worked as a cook and a waiter in the church. After the barracks, because there was no work in our region,  I went to work as a cook in Erma River.  Then I moved to work as a cook in our village of Benkovski.  There I met friends who are engaged in music.  I had a desire to play and I had an old guitar.  So my musical path began.  I played in a restaurant, we played weddings.  There was work and we earned profit, we were happy.  We went to Burgas.  There I met students, students, intelligence from the Turkish East.  I contacted them and I had a lot of time for rehearsals and reading books.  Law, criminology, history of diplomacy, constitution.  This lasted until 1984. In 2008, one evening, they surrounded our district and started to gather people.  We went out to protest. There was nothing organized, but suddenly, in a few hours, about 10,000 people gathered in a part of the village. We saw that people were being shot,  people were being chased with BTRs, fire trucks, jeeps, people were being arrested.  We heard that there were victims.  I was baptized as Mitko Asenov Yosefov Milanov.  I was crazy.  I was standing in front of a tent for I don't know how many hours,  I don't know how I was standing there, what I felt, what I thought, I don't remember.  And then I said, I will do something that our intelligentsia have not done,  who knew that they would change their names.  I thought a lot about how I could do something. I was looking to organize something.  How to organize? My job was purely journalistic, to collect information and to publish abroad.  How to publish abroad but with the embassy. Another thing is that there are students.  Who will find these students?  Students from the Russian political community.  In Russian, everything is secret, you won't tell them, even to me.  The boys quickly understood what was going on.  We won't have names, some of the students said.  The long winter started as a code between us to make.  It was a very long and cold winter, this same winter.  The birds were charging in the trees.  And that's why the long winter remained.  We already know that state state security between us. We have made a thick network between workers and everywhere where there are Turks.  I already knew in the city who is following us, I knew the agents.  We started running and they are running after us.  We started playing with them.  And we did this as a toy, but we do our jobs.  The second thing we have to do is to send this people to protests.  I said then that we would fall into the movement of the Russian Federation of Bulgaria.  But we never talked about the end. We can't act like communists.  There will be no difference between communists and us, Muslim believers.  They are infidels. The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk  The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk The story of the first time I was born in the village of Krasnoyarsk I played here with my friends. It was a big stadium back then, that's how I saw it.  They gathered here, they didn't let me go much,  because they were afraid that something would happen to me,  so I threw my friends here.  I'm a little more polite than the others.  There are so many things to talk about, but how to express all this?  This house has been searched for dozens of times because of me.  I have been digging everywhere. My parents have been tormented because of me.  My children have been crying for years without me.  And this cannot be described at all.  Can there be such words, to be able to describe?  And so it went on. I was ready to be arrested.  The head of the factory, Marshal Tolbukhin, called me into his office.  I went to him and and two people who said,  ''Eat with me!'' came to him.  ''I know what you want to do.''  ''Calm down.''  ''I've been waiting for you.''  A black car was waiting for me outside with a wheelchair in the back.  They drove me to Rzvigor, Sofia.  They started accusing me, '' a spy and a terrorist.  I asked them what they were talking about.  They asked if I had any evidence.  I said I had no evidence.  The first day, a diplomatic suitcase opened and a bullet from the inside he threw a hammer.  He said, here is the evidence. And so the first murder started.  Some with a gun, some with a hammer. Then they transferred me to the Sofian prison.  There is a heavy cellar there, which is a single cell.  I stayed there for a year.  For the first time I escaped.  More than 100 days passed.  And this in cold water.  Miseries.  Sometimes you become hungry.  You can beat your heart out of it.  As you wish.  And so the days passed.  How do the days pass?  Prayers, singing.  Years and something. I have never seen the sun. prayers, singing.  For years and something I have not seen the sun at all.  Maybe for a year and a half.  One day I got out of the cell  and they put me in this Strasbourg prison.  I weakened almost like a skeleton. I was already in prison, in the political prison.  And there I was met with great emotion,  because there I understood that I was in the biggest prison.  There I understood that I was in the prison with the biggest prisoner. There I understood that I am the one who entered the prison with the newest people.  I understood that I am the biggest leader.  I am a village boy.  I understood that without planning, without wanting, I have organized the largest illegal organization in Bulgaria,  to protect the rights of the Turks and the Muslims.  They were very angry with me.  Where did you go with this middle education,  with musician, builder, to confront each other,  to organize such things?  I know I can't.  I fight as much as I can.  After a while, instead of saying something, some of us were gathered in a salon.  They wanted to show us their yaga, they wanted to respect us, they want to promise us something. They say, do you have anything to say?  Everyone is looking at me, I have to say something again.  I say, I will say. You came here to threaten us,  are you afraid to threaten us? I say, directly.  You can't promise anything, you only know how to kill.  You killed a child, You killed innocent people.  You killed my friend in prison. What do you think you can do?  We will not give up. We are ready to fight and we will fight.  I will get out of this out with a Turkish name. The The The The The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The  The The The The The We were convicted for organizing a terrorist, espionage, anti-state activity.  He was killed in the prison, the central prison in Sofia.  I am so excited in front of him, he was so kind, kind, welcoming. I can't describe what kind of person he was.  And what happened next? After a few days, I was taken to a prison.  I was walking and walking and walking and where?  To the prison.  I don't know where I came from, and I don't know where I came from. For the first time I see what the prison looks like from the outside. What is a prison outside?  We were taken to a room, there were 15-20 people, officers and civilians.  I came in and one of them asked for permission.  I looked at him and asked, what permission? From whom?  I asked, where is he? He said, he is at the top.  I asked, what do you want me to do? He said, do it.  Will you punish me? You punished me.  I was 15 for 15 months.  I am not afraid of that. You killed me. This body has nowhere to go.  You left me hungry. You took my dignity, my pride. You took everything.  I said, you took my pride, you took everything from me, and you still scare me. Who are you scaring? Do it directly, I said.  Until I am like the other prison guards, I will never be reconciled.  If you don't cause me problems, I won't cause you problems.  But if you cause me problems, I will not come back.  I have come to die.  What are you expecting? That's why I am here to die. What do you expect?  That's why I came here. That's why I was separated.  I am different from the others.  I am not some wild animal to be trained.  You won't train me. I can die.  They took me to a corridor in a bedroom, 70-80 people, and I was lying there, two or three.  There was no one, only one sleeping inside. I saw the prisoners working. I saw myself in a miracle.  It was summer time.  Those sweaters or the goli from above,  everything was in tattoos.  Everything was written.  I, as an agent, I have nothing,  only one dot.  He said, who are you?  I said, I am Mohamed.  You haven't changed, have you?  He said, no one can change my name.  So, the prisoners, where are you from?  None of them want to believe that I am for the names.  There are no such people here, there are no police prisoners.  I said, there are, there are, I am here.  And so I met the Lissidivists.  I will tell you in detail, I saw the most dignified people there,  the most tough people, the most organized people.  I have seen such a relationship with civilians.  These people, I say, how did they get here?  I'm serious.  I started organizing the organization from there.  I didn't tell them that I send letters, draw.  Through them I sent letters to my people outside.  In these cards there is a drawing of some caricature or a card, something interesting for the children.  But actually there is an empty sheet,  between this empty sheet I put the card in a envelope and it passes.  But actually on this sheet there is a letter written with citric acid or fruit juice written on it.  And my people read it outside, calmly.  And the conspiracy is already being made.  Everything is being prepared outside and they are just waiting for my date.  and they just wait for the date.  I stayed here for about three years, from which I was in the unit, alone in the cell, for about seven months.  In general, when I was in prison, I was alone in the cell for two years in Kiliya.  I have made about ten hunger strikes here.  One of my biggest strikes is about 20 days.  I carry the name of the long winter because my friends,  before I moved out, gave this name to my family in Turkey. Otherwise, my family was named after me.  Otherwise, my name would have been Tih Vaglen, Sakinkor.  Because the prison was called Tih Vaglen.  That's what the police said.  Because I was messing very mysterious man.  One day I was on duty to be thrown out of the building.  On the first floor of the corridor I saw three people,  two of whom I know from the Straszegorski prison,  and the third was a weak, grumpy man.  I asked him who he was. He said, he is bigger than you.  How is that bigger than me?  He is also an organization and a philosopher.  I said, how can he be bigger than me?  I instantly envied him.  This is Ahmed Doan.  We met and I let my people learn what this man is.  After three months or more, they said that Ahmed was the salt of a soldier in the barracks.  When he was in the barracks.  Now, I thought a lot about it.  Everyone can be a soldier of a soldier, educated person.  And to be, however, I needed a person like Ahmed Doan. I needed a label.  My label is a builder, a cook, a musician with a middle education.  I had to use it because because I can't carry this stuff.  This is a burning ball for me, which I have to transfer to another.  Ahmed did very well, he offered me, if I wanted, to introduce you from the beginning. I'm waiting for that.  But how can I call this organization?  This organization, as I said, we call it,  we only two say it,  Movement for Rights and Freedom.  We did not talk about organizing a party with him,  but only about the movement.  And this movement was to organize these protests.  From there he continued. He continued, and I stayed in prison for another 7 months.  Now, the prison management and the people I contacted in the prison officers, they always told me that my friend had left the prison on purpose.  They were talking about Ahmed. He had left the prison on purpose, so that I wouldn't interfere in his work.  We are in front of the Turkian spring. Here, every year on December 26, people come from all over Bulgaria and Turkey, from everywhere, so that they can remember that day  for the victims of the totalitarian regime.  The name of the one who killed the Turkian, Musa and Ayse is known.  But they did nothing.  We talked to the chief prosecutor, the military prosecutor, the ombudsman.  We were all the prosecutors, all the possible institutions.  We fought for over 30 years after the prison.  But nothing. Nothing.  They don't accept our complaints documents so that they can review our case again.  So that the real statement can be published. That's what we want.  After I got out of prison, I was greeted with my friends, with rallies.  I was kissed from everywhere. I was hug of Gorshtan, from the village of Slunki.  I said to those people, how much I am loved.  They expected me to stay here and participate in the political life in Bulgaria.  In the end I said that I would travel to Turkey, I was already settled. The next day, my't pay attention to me, because I wouldn't be Bulgarian, I wouldn't be a politician.  Then I realized that these people were hoping for some interest, they came to me or they were afraid of me.  They either stayed with me or were afraid of me.  They offered me money, but I didn't take it.  Everything was a lie, it collapsed.  The balloon broke down in one day, in one evening.  Here, from this stand, the big people climb up and talk each other on the back.  They are so impudent that it is impossible.  They don't let me talk here. What do you expect?  I am a hero who is getting out of here.  I am there. They don't let me talk.  Or vice versa. They climb up, beat each other on the back.  We watch them from here, the repressed.  And from here they go for a cocktail.  In the evenings they are drunk, not sober.  They climb up on the stands again,  beat each other on the back,  and then they go to drink.  I can't be a politician because I can't drink that much.  I was just a fighter. I went out of prison.  I did what I had to do.  I thought I would go out of prison, they would return my name and I will continue with the music.  This is how I imagined it.  But in fact, nothing happened as I imagined it. The Thank you for watching!