The story of the past  Stories of past events, the power of the human spirit and the powerlessness of the system,  freedom and its price.  People have chosen the truth instead of lies.  This is their story. The The story of Belene is not to be interrupted. Belene is part of the history of the people who were here and their loved ones.  They think that they should go to the textbooks. I don't know if this part of the story is in the books.  For me, Belene is a monument with a lot of pain.  Even now, when I look at the pontoon, I can see these two trucks, like a bulldozers, driving the concentration camp. At that moment I was stuck in the pit.  Even at that age, this pit always appears. Thank you. I was born on June 16, 1945.  My parents were anarchists.  My father was an anarchist for faith,  and my mother was an anarchist by love.  I was born in Radomir, and actually I spent my whole life in Pernik, I consider myself a Pernikian.  My father was arrested in April 1945 and sent to the concentration camp in Dupnica in April 1945.  My mother is in her seventh month of life, I am still not born.  Even in the family archives there is a letter from my mother,  in which she covers the entire mahala and collects signatures of almost all 38 people,  who sign a characteristic that my he is a very good man, he does social things in the neighborhood.  On May 23, my father was released somewhere about two or three weeks before I was born. After that, my life went on in Pernik, my family, my father is at home, he works, he started working at the Krystal factory. a political prisoner during the anti-fascist monarchy  and he was elected by the workers of the plant Crystal  as the professional union secretary of the plant.  Years later, with the director's order, he was released  and on the release document it says that he is released because he is a enemy of the people.  I don't remember those years, I've only heard them from my brother, when his students in the pro-gymnasium classes were chasing him through the corridors and crucifying the sons of the enemies of the people.  I have often wondered how this mechanism worked.  They are not children who understand what the enemy of the people means.  Neither those who crucify nor those for whom they are crucified.  They don't know what the enemy of the people means.  In 1948, when the 5th Congress of the Bulgarian Communist Party, the militia began mass arrests.  The militia started mass arrests. My father and I were arrested.  He went to various concentration camps.  He went to Kotsyan, Bogdanov Dolgo,  where he made tuxedoes,  from Bogdanov Dolgo to Minieral Nikolaev Kazalnashko.  My father wrote a complaint to the administration.  The conditions in the camp are unbearable.  The food is very bad, there are clothes.  They deposit this letter to the administration.  Immediately the administration takes measures and decides to send him to Belene.  And since 1949 my father has been in Belene.  We received cards, letters, I remember those words.  Vanceti, bravo, I understood that you have learned to read. Congratulations!  And I told my father that I had broken my handwriting.  The letter he wrote to me had a very broken handwriting.  I told him to take measures and improve his handwriting.  Find the book of Senkevich, Stas and Neri, and read it to me. Throughout this time, two years or more, I have been looking at my father's portrait in the hall,  I have been touching it with my finger.  When will I go to see my father?  It will be done. It worked! We traveled from Pernik to Sofia.  We took the train for Belene.  We got off at night on this train and went to the school,  where we were going to finish this night, sleeping in the school somewhere,  on the floor. and we were waiting for the next morning at a place where the pontoon bridge was visible.  At one point we saw two trucks from the position we were in,  but they looked like two small cranes moving one after the other, passed through the pontoon bridge and the truck drivers jumped up.  They started to look around, to look for the people, to look for the people with the right eyes.  My father was a blacksmith.  The moment I saw him, I was surprised.  I was waiting for that moment and I couldn't recognize him.  I recognized him when he grabbed me by the armpits and threw me into the air, I saw his smile.  The meeting was at 2-2.30 am.  I was wondering where people called me, where I went to see someone.  Many of those who called me, called me.  I asked myself why everyone loves me so much.  And then someone said that I have a son like you, but I can't see him.  Then I felt a little like a hero.  All the gals, all my favorite sons, all of them.  My father came out of prison almost He had many diseases, malaria.  I remember the day he arrived without informing us. My mother was sewing on the machine.  We were so surprised, especially my mother, that the sewing machine was so old, it was very strong.  Suddenly it broke down, without the need for a foot, between the wheel and broke down.  Some years started in search of a job.  He was working, he was changing his job, and we were studying with my brother.  Progymnasium, gymnasium.  It was time to apply.  But they did not allow us to apply for the student exams.  You had to apply for the characteristic to all the documents.  For me and my brother, this characteristic was written by the district office.  My father told me, there is something wrong with this whole story,  he took the characteristics, opened the enemy of the people.  It doesn't matter that my brother Vasile is a great man, that Vanceti is very hardworking, that he is a great man.  My father was very rich.  A few houses below lived an active fighter against fascism, Chicho Stoiancho.  He was a very honest man.  He valued and respected my father very much.  He was a Marxist, my father, an anarchist, and he said, my children don't want to study, and his children want to study,  why should they be bothered?  They wrote down the characteristics, they printed them out in front of him and gave it to us. Then I managed to get into the candidate student exam and entered the VHTI, the chemical and technological institute.  During this time my father was already in the most oncological hospital in Sofia, in Dervenitsa.  He was ill with leukemia.  My father passed away. He couldn't wait to see my engineering diploma.  His funeral, as a person, colorful, famous in Pernik, gathered about 200-250 people. The and that's why they were talking about my father's grave.  My father didn't talk about the years spent in the camps.  Most of the time he spent in these camps was here in Belene.  I learned details about life here, about this terrible hell,  we call it hell because it was hell.  Mainly from his friends, fellow soldiers who had spent many years in these camps, I understood about their lives. There is a cruel story here. The death of the anarchist Ivan Yondev, when the commander checked everyone what the property was.  Some said anarchists, others said I am a. Yondev said, I am a man.  The commander repeated, what are you? I am a man.  They threw him an eye and one day they shot him,  as if he had started running.  After his death, they said they had killed the man.  They said the man was a full, definite member of the human race.  This is Belene.  So, years went on. I was assigned to work at the factory Crystal Pernik.  I worked there for a year. There was a new barrel workshop.  I worked for 12 hours, or even more.  I didn't think about a scientific career, but I received a message from my boss about my diploma.  I went to the second or third year of my studies, and my mother told me that there was a prize for me. I went to the city council, where the meeting was scheduled.  I went to the gatekeeper and explained to him exactly who I am and what I am for.  Behind me I heard a voice saying,  ''Come with me, I am Major Bozhilov from the State Security.  There was a machine in your factory, a glass cutting machine.  This machine costs 100,000 dollars.  And nobody knows why the it's not integrated. Help us! I heard this word very often afterwards. Help us! He knows that they were instigating some fear in every person.  And in me too. I was afraid to give up on the right.  I saw this machine because it was not integrated into production. It turned out that the machine can cut glass, flat glass, with a wave density of 3%.  Each machine has its own device to measure it.  And the glass in the Crystal factory had a wave density of over 3%.  I told them the things. Okay, okay, friend Vasilev.  And now we want to set another task for you.  Evangelists live against this.  We want to know when they meet,  who they are, how many they are,  details. They meet every day. What are they? How many are there? Details.  You want me to be a guide.  You won't be.  And I thought I was wrong.  I changed several jobs.  Electricity factory.  Electricity factory in Zhabljano.  Electricity factory in Zhabljano.  And...  a competition was opened  in a group of employee in my field.  I gave the documents.  And from the bank there was no result, no call, no letter.  I called and asked what was happening with the competition? You have your documents in the Pernick's police station.  Wait, I say, what? What are my documents doing?  A graduate student working in...  I don't believe it!  No!  Bozhilo, already a major or a lieutenant colonel.  And for the third time we come to offer you...  You don't take the hand!  Thank you, I refuse the competition.  But at the same time I thought about independence.  What was the possibility during socialism?  Just one thing – farming, animal husbandry.  I bought animals, pigs, mothers and looked at the pig.  Even the first two mothers got their asses kicked here,  because they weren't ready for the promise.  Horrible! The girls came again.  They told me, we are coming here because you are a very bad example.  You are an engineer, from everywhere they say that you are very capable, that you are hardworking, but you have become a pig.  I say well, but pig-working is work.  I work. Yes, that's right, but there are others who work. And you are not for this work.  They forced me, they paid me. I said no. They said, be careful, we do not answer what will happen to you. When my first meetings with the state security started,  the memories of all those honslaggerists began to flow.  I went to the people I had forgotten to repeat them to me.  I went to some of them for the third or fourth time.  I recorded them.  In the barracks, in the end, two vases are placed, which are called winter vases. They are mugs. In fact, they are not mugs, but inside there is paper, or cotton, or cotton to keep warm during the winter.  These two vases, on both sides, I was interested if someone had written it or not.  This was the end of the 70s and the beginning of the 80s. No one had written.  So I finished the book, I referred it to Georgi Markov, and he wrote down, he himself had given it.  I had this intention, like in the Soviet Union, and in Europe, in the social countries, but frankly speaking, I was afraid to publish it, I was afraid to keep it in prison.  So I chose the second option, to run away.  And my mother, who was my first reader, said,  son, I once stole it with your father in prison,  I can't steal it with you, I can't.  And I also mentioned another option, another is to take a handkerchief and run away with it.  Go son, run away.  In 1988, I was finally allowed to go to the border, but not to the Cathedral.  All these years I have studied, collected information on how these people change and go to change and how they enter.  It turned out that there are 10 minutes that you can enter without a document. I left here.  My mother had prepared a bouquet of health.  She said, with God, you can see me.  I gave it to him and left.  We go to the place of the cathedral and there we sleep, everyone who finds a place to sleep.  It started to rain.  Wet.  I divided the manuscript into two parts.  I put them here with socks for wide sleeves.  The paper got wet. And I waited for it to get wet.  The doors were opened, people were yelling, the state security, the police couldn't control the process.  I managed to get in, and I brought money for dollars to continue, because I was leaving.  I was leaving.  I managed to get caught with that money and the manuscript.  I went straight into the prison.  I was watching, I was standing, I was trembling, I was deciding, but at 2 o'clock I was leaving.  They were scattered. I was trembling, I decided, and at exactly two o'clock I left.  They were scattered, almost never stopped.  The border...  Down, down, down, Busilov city.  I took the bus.  Nis. Belgrade.  Zagreb. I went down to the hill. I went to the cemetery of the town.  It was around 4 o'clock in the afternoon. I had only seen the map.  I didn't expect to reach the crossing so quickly.  I went to the border and started waiting.  I started to pause the train many meters it was, 50-100 meters.  I could see everything. I was crawling, crawling, crawling.  I felt my knees sweating, that was the limit speed.  I got off the road for 30, I don't know how much, 3-4 km.  I was drinking.  I was drinking with delight.  And at one point I heard the brakes of a police car and I saw the light.  The hands of the car.  From above.  We stole one night of my mother in a tourist villa.  We confiscated it.  They took it, they took me to the villa in Pishina and from there things started.  I stayed in Italy for two years sunny. I left for New York.  It was between Christmas and New Year.  The book went to New York, returned to Bulgaria. In fact, I sometimes get ironic.  This is the book that made a world tour across the ocean.  It was returned twice to be published in its native place. The first time a Spanish philosopher.  He said that a nation that doesn't know its history, doesn't expect anything good.  I'm not quoting exactly, but it's said so.  He quoted a patterned phrase, but people learn from history, so they don't repeat their mistakes.  And because I lived in two different worlds, here in the socialist world, of print, for freedom of the individual,  you have to fight every day, from morning to evening.  Every day. Every day. Thank you.