  Hello dear viewers. The broadcast starts with the section History with Stefan Dechev.  To participate in our survey  scan the QR code  you see on the screen  The response, especially  from our last two broadcasts  surpasses our most bold expectations  Our show already has its viewers  not only in Bulgaria  and among our emigration in Western Europe  and America  We are happy for interest interest and from the side of our fans in two neighboring countries  Republic of Macedonia and Republic of Turkey.  Thank you for your interest. We are sure that we will not disappoint you in the future.  We will continue to touch on topics that cannot be seen on the mainstream TV.  This happens only after keeping a list of guests and through controlled debate.  Today we will again focus on the policy of assimilation towards the Muslims and the Turks in Bulgaria.  This time, however, we will try to look at it in a more general chronological context, from the last years under the Ottoman rule to our days.  For this reason, in the second part of the story with Stefan Nechev, today I have invited the colleagues Dr. Georgi Zelengor from Sofia and Prof. Zeynep Zefer, who will be waiting for us on the line in Ankara.  My first guest.  Georgi Zelengor was born in 1970 in Sofia.  In 1995 he finished his studies at the University of Sofia, Saint Clement Ohridski.  In 2002 Georgi Zelengor was awarded a doctoral dissertation on the subject  Bulgarians outside the European provinces of the Ottoman Empire in the 18th and 19th centuries.  The author of the book The Pomumas in Turkey, published in 2014.  Georgi Zelengor is the producer and screen history of Bulgaria, the Balkans and Asia Minor.  He has worked for various print and electronic publications.  All this is the reason why I invite him to our guest today in the story with Stefan Dechev.  Good afternoon, colleague Zelengor. I am glad that you will be in our show and will have the opportunity to meet our viewers, who after each next show are growing more and more.  I am also glad to participate in a show where critical voices can be heard, critical opinions about history, not just propaganda clichés that the media pour on of a challenge. We give a little bit of a hint for it.  What is the relationship between Christians and Muslims in today's territory,  approximately in today's territory of Bulgaria,  let's say in the beginning or the middle of the 70s of the 19th century,  before the April uprising and before the Russian-Turkish war of 1877-1878.  Do we have any evidence for this? Can we make some more categorical conclusions about this relationship between Christians and Muslims? There is enough statistical data, which, although not 100% accurate, are the best source for establishing the population in these territories.  We have from the 1970s detailed statistics of the villages of Dunavskaya and Odrinskija.  In general, there are many studies of modern demographics on the Karmakarpats, but not only that, there are many authors in foreign literature who have researched the whole document in depth.  We can tell our viewers that this is a Turkish historian who has an American academic career in the United States.  Yes, in America, in data are insignificant. It is important to specify the territories, exactly on which territories this measurement takes place.  The Danube Vila, for example, coincides with a large part of the Kingdom of Bulgaria,  but one part of the Lower Sandzak goes to Serbia, the Northern Dobrudzha to Romania.  The Odrin Vila is one hour away from Eastern Rumelia.  According to these studies, the data for the Danube village show that about 41% of the population in the evening of the liberation is Muslim and about 59% is not Muslim, while the Bulgarians are a multitude, of course, a little over 50 evening of the Russian-Turkish war in the village of Dunavske are a little over 1 million.  What happens to this population when the military actions begin and the Russian-Turkish war is already in its peak? 1877-1878. How did the Christian population react? How did the Muslim population react to the arrival of the region is very poor, many people die of starvation, from various epidemics that occur during the war.  Now, overall, on the territory of the two regions, the Kingdom population will decrease by 50% from about 1.5 million to 750 thousand.  The statistics exactly read the proportion of the data before and after the liberation.  Is there such a population size, for example, Bulgarians, who from territories that remain in the Ottoman Empire,  to be transferred to the future principality or Eastern Rumelia and vice versa?  There is, of course, a refugee wave of Bulgarians from Macedonia, Turkey, Malaysia,  also Banat and Bessarabia.  But it is significantly smaller  compared to the number of  displaced Muslims.  The population itself is decreasing sensitively.  The ethnodemographic change  is significant. The ethnodemographic change is substantial, comparing the Ottoman data with the first population count in Bulgaria.  In the Danube village, the Muslims are already 28% according to the first population count.  So the decrease from 40% to 28% is the result of the main displacement and much smaller number of Bulgarian refugees from neighboring countries. Christians and Muslims, because among the Muslims themselves include both the Turkish population,  as well as Tatars, Circassians, Pumas, who actually, since the Ottoman Empire continues to operate  the system of millets, that is, the division of religions, actually this religious community has the same behavior during the war and during the advance of the Russian troops.  Yes, especially for the Russian-Turkish war, the behavior of the Pomacians and the Circassians is identical.  In fact, the Circassians are running around in mass numbers and almost do not remain.  I think that the first count was 68 for the whole country, which is nothing.  But with the palm trees, since they are in the regions of Teteven, Lukovit, Biala Slatina, about 70 villages,  they are in the vicinity of Pleven, where the most serious battles are being fought.  The population is subject to many requisitions and various forms of oppression and violence.  Almost all the Palmatians are exiled during the Russian-Turkish war.  After the war, they return for an war, after which they returned for a part of the war,  but most of them stayed.  As we said before, what is the correct term for the meaning of these Muslims?  There is such a dispute in science,  more recently, I wouldn't even say in science,  there is an effort by the propagists and patriots to find another term, not just the way this population is called. The core of the plant is located in the Rhodopis Mountains, but there are also in Northern Bulgaria and in various places in Macedonia.  The term of the plant is only the most common, which is used for the plants ingranates in the western and central Rhodopi,  these in northern Bulgaria,  the pomegranates in Tikvesh, in Maglen, in the valley of Struma,  but otherwise in Macedonia, further west in Macedonia,  there are known by other names,  Torbeshi, Apovci, Diosyzi.  In the eastern parts of the Pomegranki Massif, the word Ahriani is preferred, even for some special areas.  The word Pumaci does not cover the whole community and we use it with all its condition. It appears for the first time in the literature  in the early 1940s in the newspaper  of Vasil Aprilov in the newspaper of the New Bulgarian Education.  You are talking about the 1940s of the 19th century.  Yes, the 1941s of the 19th century.  And in parallel with this, the French researcher Ami Bouet  only says that he is talking about hunting The term Bulgarian-Mohamedani was first used by Mikhail Madjarov in a study, which then started by some scholars, but still the country used it for decades, mainly by Macy and only after the First World War it began to be replaced. In Turkey they call them male Turks, in Macedonia from the 70s they call them Macedonian Muslims.  In the 70s there is a plenum of the Macedonian Communist Party. So all these concepts are made up of two parts.  They are not naturally created, they are invented by the respective state, by its academic staff or a repressive apparatus in order to unite the population.  To ease the policy of assimilation.  Yes, and at the same time explain that the word POMAK is offensive,  which is constantly repeated and some really start to think that it is so.  What is the most impressive thing during the first census of the population after the Berlin Congress,  already on the territory of the Kingdom of Bulgaria and Eastern Romania?  The most impressive thing... Now, first I want to say that the Bulgarian statistics from the very beginning is on a very good level, it is consistent with a very high accuracy with the different demographic indicators.  One of the reasons is that we follow the international statistical research.  Absolutely. I am surprised by the high percentage of the Turkish people in Bulgaria, who was then the Director of Statistics, explains that everyone is very surprised.  No one expected so much, because you know in the Renaissance seal and book are published claims for 5, 6, 7 million for the largest nation of the Balkans.  At one point it turns out that this is not quite so and that a large part of the territory of Bulgaria is with a prevailing Turkish population.  Yes, in fact, these 5-garization of cities are slightly exaggerated. Here we have to say to our viewers that during the fall of medieval Bulgaria, or this territory, which is today's territory of Bulgaria, several centuries, between the end of the 14th century and the middle of the 19th century.  There is something else. In the 19th century, the Bulgarian population in Eastern Bulgaria was really decreasing as a relative part, due to the displacement of many Bulgariansians mainly in South Russia, in Bessarabia, as well as the displacement of refugees from Russia, Tatars, Circassians, especially in the second half.  Yes, especially in the second half, especially after the Russo-Turkish wars, these processes reduced the relative share of the Bulgarian population.  Here we can say that the crisis in the relations between Christians and Muslims, to a large extent,  already in the 60s and 70s, was due to this newly arrived population from the southern parts of Russia, Turkey and the Circassians, and not by chance, after that, the Berlin Treaty forbids the settlement of the Circassians in the territory of the Kingdom of Bulgaria.  In fact, the problem is not with the wars and such exiles, not only in Bulgaria, but also in many places in the world.  And if you read carefully Christobotov, when he talks about the difficult situation of the Bulgarian people, and what needs to be a little more specific, he says  Yesterday a Tatar was in the south of the Danube, yesterday a Circassian was in the south of the Danube, and so on.  Yes, yes, Okay, when did the Russian-Turkish war begin, the resettlement of the Muslims from Turkey, or maybe before that, what was the attitude of the Bulgarian state towards this population after 1879-1980. Now, basically, throughout the period from the liberation to the Balkan war, we have annual whole, from the liberation, including to the end of the communist regime, the attitude towards the Turks is like a reluctance towards people who need to to move out, who are subject to relocation, that is, they treat themselves as conquerors, if we read the story, a foreign population that has to return to where it came from. The Patrigiri University of the University of Princeton, has introduced a concept called  Primary Acquisition of Territory.  That is, if the Proto-Bulgarians and the Slavs  enter the territory of Byzantium,  it is legitimate, because they inhabit their future homeland.  But the Ottoman Turks should come to the Balkans.  Yes, of course.  Also, Bulgarian science from the very beginning,  although in the interest of the society there are some sober voices,  which still show concern that so many people are leaving the village and the whole territory is deserted. But they meet a lot in stories and in stories. The population is so large that it is impossible to find people from all over the world.  But they meet a lot in the stories and in the manuscripts.  Yes, but as a whole, the leading representatives of the historical science, and I would like to quote one of the leading historians in Bulgaria, if you allow me, a few statements from his poem,  The Transfiguration of the Malaysian Bulgarians in the Principality.  This is written about the settlement of the first Malaysian Bulgarians in North-East Bulgaria.  And here is what he writes. There is no doubt that the fact that a large part of the local population is moving out of one country, which needs more workers to raise its welfare, is not a good sign for its future. But what does this have to do with our Turkish emigration? It is special. We have a work with a fanatical and unfriendly-minded population,  which never seriously thinks about the future of the country element, no matter how bad it is for him, cannot be stopped and because on the other hand there is no hope that the remaining Turkish population, with its own cultural immobility, will be able to continue to advance with the Bulgarian population, which is quickly becoming more and more developed. nor especially to appreciate the benefit of our state from their position in Bulgaria.  And as far as the territories of Northeast Bulgaria are concerned, the districts of Shumen, Varna, Razgrad and Silistra, We should not be against it, because its dense and compact Turkish population is increasingly being divided, as it is spreading with the Bulgarian.  This should be in the interest of the culture, which cannot trust where the ferej is fenced with Chinese walls between the people's special relations.  I'm sorry, I read it from the phone.  This is a poem by Lyubomir Miletic.  This is Lyubomir Miletic, after which he continues that what a graceful mood the new settlementseast of Bulgaria, the new settlements. There are some internal contradictions here.  He doesn't deny that this is a bad thing for the Bulgarian economy,  the very displacement.  Secondly, it is really possible to argue for a long time  because we know very well that at the end of the Ottoman period,  as well as in the first years after the Ottoman period, already in the new Bulgarian state, the northeastern regions of Bulgaria give one of the most dynamic regions of the country, exactly these populated places.  Shumen, Razgrad, Silistra, Russe and so on.  Trade.  Yes, it is contrary to the claim that for this power of the revival of the Enlightenment movement, what kind of success it has achieved. The results of the counting, which include the factor of literacy, show exactly that.  Let's go back to the more important solar waves between 1878 and 1912. I said that this is a period in which we have a period of settlement of many Turks, of several thousand Turks and Pomads, of course, Pomads from Northern Bulgaria, as well as from the Rodopi.  For example, the Rodopi in the municipality of Chepelare, the Chepelar area, the Peshter area, the Stanimashka area, many From 70 villages, there are about 4 palm trees left and a few where there are some palm trees.  Today, as a white-gold, there was half a palm tree. The numbers between 1879 and 1912 are bigger or more intense than those in the interwar period? We have the 30th anniversary of the war, which is 10,000 years, so that it does not get to very drastic and gradually the relationship changes. to find the answer. Does the desire to emigrate depend on whether we are talking about a generation that has a living memory of the rule of the Ottoman Empire or is it a question of another generation the liberation grew up in conditions where the Muslims are already a minority, they are not only from the state policy, but also from purely economic factors,  because gradually there is a difference between the majority and the minority, especially in the The young Bulgarian entrepreneurship is trying to gain value in any way with their property.  I can give some concrete examples with some politicians, deputies, industrialists who are getting rich very quickly for the sake of tur the Turkish and Maltese. We saw this during the big excursion.  Yes, Samia says a bit, Bayganu, you lead the enemy in the Turkish villages.  In general, this population was much more defenseless after the liberation of Bulgaria  and it became easy to steal from such greedy capitalists, so to speak.  What happened during the Balkan wars of 1912-1913?  I think that what we know most is that there are new settlements and most importantly, the Bulgarian state takes the first action to change the names of the Pomats.  Is this actually right or were there similar efforts before?  There were ideas, that is, some of the more radical socialists in the spiritual world  have thought like this for a long time, they just thought that the time had not come.  And indeed, the war is always a time for such an unpunished execution of mass crimes, not only the Balkan one.  Now, the Balkan war has two the front of the war operations, which is attacking the most new countries that will epidemics and of course a mass and rural wave from these territories.  The other reason is, as you said, the Christianization, the campaign for the forced Christianization of the Pomac trees in Bulgaria, which causes mass dissatisfaction among the palm trees, leads to opposition, to international pressure,  ultimately canceled after the war, but it is done with extreme brutality, with many victims and as a result of this, in 2013-1914, during the Palmatians, we observe the largest exodus of the Palmatians from the Rhodope and also a little from Northern Bulgaria, mainly from the Rhodope.  So, in 1913-1914, between the Balkan Radoslavov came to power, after the inter-Union war, this campaign was stopped.  The Muslims and the Muslims' but this is an extremely serious crime that deepens a very deep abyss.  It is intended here by some extreme patriots as a communing of the Pomats,  because in science it is already accepted that the Pomats are Bulgarians.  In the beginning, after the liberation, I missed the first counting, counting as Turks.  After that they start as Pomacians, until 1926, and then they are considered as Bulgarians.  The ordinary Bulgarian population, how does it perceive them from 1879 to the wars? How the local population perceives the pomacites. Now, I think that on a daily level people have always understood each other, communicated until the moment when the other's interest is not interfered with, the state. I am the author of a documentary film.  The exhumation of the tombs from the village of Orehovo in the case is a major part of the two souls, but it deepens the gap between the population, between Christians and Muslims. So, this is valid now and always happens.  The three years later, in 1896. Exactly. Stoyil Shishkov was a teacher at that time in Orehovo,  where two thirds of the residents were Pomacians, one third Christians.  And he, because he showed sympathy for the Pomacians  and sympathized with this exhumation, wrote this story, which...  It is encouraging.  Yes, which later served as the basis for the documentary film.  We will have the opportunity to see a response from him. There are some appetites for the property, they start in the place of the most conservative and moderate parties in Bulgaria,  as the National Party, and despite everything, it is possible to achieve such actions.  There are better specialists who have been working on this issue say that this is more of a matter of irresponsible factors.  The state preserves a small-mindedness of the population.  It just does not prevent it.  It does not prevent it, that is, it supports it, but it does not interfere.  Only Mikhail Takiyev, who comes out of the Democratic Party with a letter in which has declared itself against this with purely constitutional arguments.  It is enough to have an elementary legal culture to make it clear that what is done is wrong.  Yes, but in general there is a great unity between the local community, the clergy and the Macedonian and Thracian priests on the question that this is the most appropriate moment for this.  Of course, we have to note the fact that this behavior of the party of all those who participate in it and a complete lack of knowledge of the state.  At one point the First World War comes and Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire are allies together with the Central Powers, Germany and Austro-Hungary.  What is the behavior of the Bulgarian state and, more specifically, what is the behavior of the Muslim and Turkish population in the country, when Bulgaria and Turkey are allies, all the treaties, the Tsarist Treaty, after the 15th anniversary of the agreement,  force Bulgaria to read the rights of the Muslims and to take some measures to avoid serious conflicts and conflicts. At that moment, however, the Bulgarian state  again finds a way to free itself from part of the  Muslims, sending a huge  number of tens of thousands of young  Muslims to serve in the Turkish army,  handing them over to Turkey, which is a mutual agreement.  Turkey  fights on much heavier fronts and giving much more victims.  I remember the Saturday evening of the Balkan war when Ferdinand declared the war as a war of the cross in half a month.  There were objections from Western European countries, including them.  They said, why should you declare it as a religious war when you are talking about the rights?  Exactly. Even more so, that in Bulgaria we have 14% of Muslims in the Balkan war.  So, from Russian to Turkish they have decreased from 28% to 14%, but this is still a significant minority.  There is also a report by Atanas Shopov that the territories that Bulgaria claims to be in the evening of the war count the palm trees for Bulgaria after the Krastilka, this is really...  In this context, they need a lot of effort to be counted in this way. Yes, exactly. And generally speaking, the country is expanding with such territories.  But on this issue, especially for the Muslims, there is a lot of controversy among the generals themselves.  On the one hand, they think that too many Muslims in the Bulgarian army is not good for the discipline and they send mass diplomats and Turks mainly from the new lands, because these old ones have Bulgarian citizenship, and these new ones have the right, if they wish, because Turkey sent a large part of them to the Balkan fronts and this was a danger.  In general, in the end, many people die.  Many Muslims in the Caucasus, First and the Second World Wars? Yes, and in parallel with this, in Turkey, there is still a war going on, before Atatürk's victory, before the revolution.  The situation there is uncertain, and we even have examples of the return of the Palmatians, especially from Turkey. that the more traditionalist-like Muslim population, including those from Bulgaria,  is suspected of the politics of Atatürk himself?  Or is there such a contradiction?  On the contrary, I think that in principle here more observers notice that in Bulgaria  Atatürk is used among the Muslims with a very big authority, they follow the events very closely and support their actions.  Should it be said that the Muslims have grown in contact with Christians in the environment, closer Asia Minor have grown in such a way as the opposite.  But all this changed in 1923, when a more revanchist government came to Bulgaria as a result of visas for thousands of people annually.  However, the visas have a significant change.  The visas in Turkey are banned.  They are already recognized as Bulgarians.  The state already looks at them as Bulgarians. It begins to open schools in the villages of Pomashki, which, of course, causes a reaction among the people.  Not only schools, but all kinds of state services in the area. For example, there is a case in Zlatograd, where a local doctor in 1934 had a campaign against the vyshki, he beat naked women and burned their clothes, and this caused a very sharp reaction and mass illegal running. The Pomads started to flee illegally during this period, because it was already illegal.  This is a similar Pomad, Mehmet Kundiov, from the village, they run illegally through the border  and settle in the mountainous area  east of Samsun, the black and white area.  They run through Turkey or through Greece?  They run through Greece, all illegal runs are through  Greece on the Pumatii and from there through the Turkish consul  in Gümürcün, he sends them with the Turkish  railways to Turkey and from there the village commissions distributed them.  But in 1900 there were many deaths, especially after the Democratic Party, issued a decree in March that many refugees from the village of Dolene, a group of 27, 12 of which weres, when the construction of more serious borders began.  During this period, the so-called friendship-relationship appeared. What can you say about this phenomenon?  Evgenia Ivanova is more failed for the integration of this population.  And some people then recommend that this process of the donations of a donor elite be left,  that an organization be created that be supported by the state.  And so in 1937 the Druzhba Rodina was created, which, although it managed to create some structures in the area,  in general, it was used with absolutely... it immediately attracted the negative attitude of the diplomats themselves. You know that after the National Assembly announced a fascist organization...  What happened after September 9, 1944?  The settlement process after September 9, unlike the one before that,  is, as I said a campaign. We have three big waves. 50-51, then 68-1 and then the so-called big excursion 89.  In the first years there are some cheats. What would you say? These Cheti helpers are defined as part of the Goran movement.  In the Pirin region there are many points of contact with the Pirin people.  So, they are opposed to the communist collectivization?  They are opposed to the mobilization after September 9th for the war against Germany.  Many people ran away from the mobilization and formed Cheti. September 9th for the war against Germany.  There are many who run away from the mobilization, they form a group of 4.  Subsequently, these 4 are generally taken along the entire border, but mostly in the Gotse-Delchevsky district.  There are some quite large groups, such as Parcho, Fai Gaziev and some other Chetis, who help the local part of the population inites are settled in various parts of North-East Bulgaria, in places that were emptied by the Turks in the 1950s.  We have a large internal settlement and they still live today. There is a market, a shopping mall, a town, a town hall,lak, Burgas in these areas. And what is the participation of the Pumacites in these settlements that take place after September 9?  From 1950 to 1980.  In principle, the ban on Pumacites continues to apply. The state does not allow the settlement of Pumacites.  In addition to those who in the 1940s managed to escape in this period of uncertainty, in the following periods there are some attempts by the Pumacians who are settled in the Turkish villages to learn Turkish and try to present themselves as Turks to get an easy passport, an international passport to emigrate.  Now there are examples of escape, but they are very few.  For example, a group of young people from the village of Godse Delchevsko in 1972 managed to escape three or four times.  I met one of them, they were 19 years old at the time.  They are currently in different regions of Turkey, but they gather and make their own daily collections.  They are in the state security documents. There are documents for their escape. but 15 out of 20 people manage to escape.  There are some, but not all, but not the most.  Following all these events from 1879 to the Balkan Wars, between the First and Second World Wars, the wave after September 9, 1944.  How do you see the last major exodus from 1989 with the rest?  What is the largest, the largest?  The largest exodus is undoubtedly the first one during the Russian-Turkish war.  This is maybe the second one, which the number here can be from 310 to 360 thousand.  This is depending on the period.  You are talking about all the Muslims here.  The Pomacians, the Turks and so on.  Yes. The last wave of the Pomacians is in the year 1990.  Inep Zafer can talk more about this, about these villages that were destroyed in 1973.  After they restored their names, they moved to Turkey, a large group.  Otherwise, this is the second largest. The Balkan war is about 413,000 refugees in Turkey, of which a little more than half are from Bulgaria, the others are from the rest of Serbia, Greece and Montenegro.  So this is the second major settlement. Unlike the others, this is a settlement in a peaceful time.  You say Serbia and Montenegro, do you include Bosnia here?  Bosnia at that time is the present Bosnia in the composition of Austro-Hungary, but Montenegro also acquires some territories inhabited there in the region.  There are also many refugees in Turkey who have their own villages.  Okay, when you gather all these waves, can we say for a period of over 100 years, what is the total number of the displaced Turks and Muslims from the territory of today's Bulgaria, from the Balkans? So, there are enough studies and experiments on this issue.  This is what happens, of course, when the data is summed up,  we get a figure of over 1,700,000 for 100 years, 120 years or so.  Of course, these people in Turkey, there was a study where for the origin, because Turkey is a country of refugees with a very large percentage of refugees, The number of those who come from Bulgaria is very high and by this indicator Bulgaria is the largest donor of the population compared to the Balkan countries, only from Russia, but the process is long there, and Russia is big there.  It starts with Peter I, Russia is still big for a small country like Bulgaria.  Is the reason for this the greater proximity of Bulgaria to Turkey or is there a specificity of the Bulgarian politics? This is the result of this politics and the Bulgarian politics.  Closeness certainly matters, but compared to other Balkan countries, the percentage of the Muslim population is a little higher. Have you made an attempt to calculate the balance of the Bulgarians who came from the Ottoman Empire,  settled in Bulgaria, and the Turks and Muslims who were exiled from Bulgaria to Turkey?  I have been dealing a lot with the Bulgarian refugees refugees, more specifically with Malaysian Bulgarians, on whom I had my dissertation.  I have visited their villages, most of which are now inhabited by the Pomacians, while others are from other villages in Bulgaria. where Bulgaria has received significantly more refugees than it has expelled foreign population, especially from Greece, because there were no Serbs to be expelled to Serbia. The balance is quite in the hands of Bulgaria. I said here about 1,700,000 for 100 years.  For the same period, the Bulgarian refugees from the territory of today's Turkey are about 140,000 to 150,000.  I am talking about today's Turkey, because...  If we are talking about the Ottoman Empire, the end of the the Ottoman Empire, the number of Bulgarian refugees is significantly smaller than when you go to the west of Turkey, where you meet people from Bulgaria in every village.  We don't stay with such impressions as reading the pathos of our literature for the national association.  Unfortunately, the academic mediocrity continues to be based on the contributions of Vasil Kanchov. I have followed his steps in Asia Minor and I can say how conscientiously he has been, but both in Asia Minor and Macedonia he has driven Bulgarians twice as far as they are. and the economic mediocrity, despite the fact that so many statistics have been published and so many studies have been conducted,  continue to be based on the contribution of Vasil Kanchov.  Vasil Kanchov is not the one who misuses the has, because he counts Bulgarians based on the language he speaks.  If he is a patriarch and a standard, we need to count him again for Bulgarians. who mainly gives Christians and Muslims, but now Vasil Kanchov still has some excuse,  because at the time the science was not yet enough to include so much data in the circulation.  But the modern authors, the modern university researchers simply have no excuse to continue using the statistics of Kanchov for Macedonia or Miletic for Thrace.  I would like to give an example of Kanchov's methodology. If I may quote a few lines, he decides here, according to the houses, to estimate the population.  And now he says, for the estimate of the population, we have toured everywhere for the Mohamedan Turks, five people living in the house.  And he explains, usually the Turkish families are usually small because they do not have enough children.  The gypsies and Jews have to be estimated at 6-6.5%.  The Bulgarian population is more fertile with children, the the rural population, which is a very small percentage, and 6-7% and somewhere more for the rural population.  This is the way in which he uses the data from the Ottoman Salon Meta, but he explains everywhere that here the Turkish statistics do not match our data, they magnify the number of Muslims and reduce the number of Christians.  Miletic in the same way, but they, as in Macedonia, so in Asia Minor, he visits mainly some cities, including small towns, from there he collects information about the whole area. Here came some of the Zanayachis, Abadji, some of the sheep, this village, he told him that there are so many houses in this village.  And basically, this is the same with Miletic, them and, despite that, gives a much higher figure.  And besides that, he criticizes Karayov for putting the Pumas to the Turks, not to the Bulgarians.  And yet, unlike the Bulgarian historical science,  humanities, ethnography, folklore from the late 50s to the late 80s,  and again by inertia in the 90s,  they did not participate in the ideological establishment of the change of names,  as this happened then, according to the Pumacites from the beginning of the 70s,  72-73, the change of the names of the Turks in 84-85, where we see that the Faculty of History,  the Faculty of History of Bulgaria, the University of Sofia, the Institute of History of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences have an exceptional work of art.  I would like to end, since you are the author of the book about the Pomads in Turkey, to tell us, maybe to show it to our viewers, how many Pomads are in Turkey today? Where do they live and what is their identity?  I mentioned the total number of the settlements.  With the Pomacians, the old borders of the United Bulgaria can be established.  For the new lands, there are some difficulties in establishing, but in general it can be said that the number and Kostorskite palm trees, which as a exchange of take into account some reproduction at a medium-year rate for that time, It would be necessary for about half a million people to live in Turkey today.  The people of Pomaç are on the market.  Of course, how many of them think of Pomaç is another matter.  You are the film director for Pomaç in Turkey.  Maybe we can see a reaction from him.  I would like to say something about Pomaç in Turkey.  I have established about 250 villages in Turkey.  Half of them are in European Turkey, a little more than half in Asian.  After publishing the book, I have established about 10.  The presence of the local towns, the surrounding centers is also very strong, so especially in Thrace and in the northwest of Asia Minor, as well as some enclave in Izmir, Samson, Eskişehir, we have a very compact population.  Do you keep in mind your grandparents from Bulgaria? Of course.  Especially in recent years, with the emergence of the Internet and social networks,  many lost family ties have begun to be restored,  in which I have also participated.  I have found many people, the relatives, who they considered to be irreversible,  drowned in, disappeared and some connections were restored,  which have long been interrupted, because especially during the period of communism  it was almost impossible to...  Yes, in the conditions of the Cold War.  Yes, in the conditions of the Cold War.  Let's see a clip from the movie.  Okay, yes.  With pleasure.  On the east of the Dardanelles, deep in the mountain ranges of northwestern Asia, but they forcibly left their native fires in the Rhodope.  This is how the village Ilias Agachev Lik was born. It's a conflict. We will help you! The village of Krasnoyars of Chiflik The village of Chiflik  The village of Chiflik  The village of Chiflik  The village of Chiflik  In Ilyas Agachiflik there are a few people left, mostly elderly.  Most of its inhabitants have fled through the cities of Cham, Biga, Chanakale, Istanbul,  and some have left for have gone to Europe.  That's why every spring the village gathers its scattered treasures to remind them where they started.  Would you say, at the end of our show, you have been on the ground many times in Turkey. What are the things that when I started the field work I had no relationship by the presence of many small villages that have moved out of their generation and still speak their mother tongue.  Of course, those who have already settledern Asia, language is not only spoken, but it is also used in daily communication between the neighbors. The women are among themselves, from the neighboring villages.  Of course, there is already a process of dehumanization, but there is still some form fates, following the settlement.  I have come across various examples of identity of people from different generations, The younger generations that have experienced violence, they have some kind of negativity towards Bulgaria.  The older generations do not have any.  The fourth and fifth generations, on the contrary, have an interest and desire for communication, which has happened in practice in the last two decades.  They often go to the Rhodopita,  there are many palm trees in this area.  This is an interesting phenomenon  which I think that the palm trees  are a small number of species.  They have no chance  to lead some kind of independent  isolated existence, but they could turn into a bridge, a cultural bridge between the Balkan countries.  Not only Bulgaria and Turkey, but also Greece, Macedonia, Kosovo, Albania. And of course, the politicians have to realize how valuable this is, because this is one of the great pillars of the Bulgarian diaspora, if we are honest.  I would say they are more than the non-Arabian Bulgarians. especially for the This is what I witnessed.  Dr. Zelengora, thank you for your participation today. This was the end of the first part of the story with Stefan Dechev. See you soon.  Hello again. As I promised you previously, in the second part of the story with Stefan Dechev with Professor Zeynep Zefer.  She was born in 1958 in the village of Kornitsa, Blagoevgradsko.  In 1973, during the violent change of the names of the Pumats in Bulgaria, Zeynep was evicted together with her parents, opposing the assimilatory policy of the communist regime.  The subsequent forceful change of name in 1982 refused to change its name.  It was forced by the state security agencies to suspend its investigation into the Higher Pedagogical Institute Schumann, a specialization in Bulgarian  theology.  During the largest wave of assimilation in 1985, he was sentenced to two years in prison,  two years in prison and a monetary prison. In 1988, Zeynep Zafer is in the group of the first Turkish members of the Independent Society  for Human Rights, led by Ilya Minev.  He is a representative of the Association for the Varna Region.  He is included in the staffet hunger strike in support of the writer Peter Menolov, Secretary of the Independent Society for Human Rights.  Zeynep Zefer was among the group of dissidents determined to meet with the French President François Mitterrand at his visit to Bulgaria in January 1989.  Participation was then also delayed because it was detained by the militia.  Zeynep Sefer actively participated in the construction among the Turks in northeastern Bulgaria  of the structures of the Independent Society for the Protection of Human Rights, which prepare and lead the May events in 1989.  Mass protests among the Turkish population against the assimilation policy,  cynically called the reviving process.  On February 3, 1989, she was expelled from the country.  Only three years after the changes in 1989, Zeynep Zefer managed to graduate.  She works at the Ankara Universityology at the University, and after 2000 he was  the head of the Department of Bulgarian Language and Literature.  He participated in many international scientific manifestations.  He is the author of a number of articles on Russian and Bulgarian literature, the theory and practice of the artistic translation from Russian and Bulgarian to Turkish.  Zeynep Zefer is also the author of books, among which are Chekhov as a Master of Story, Nov new reading of Ivan Vazov and others.  I am convinced that in the already well-documented policy of the Bulgarian state  from the communist period for the assimilation of the Turks and Muslims in Bulgaria,  related to the order of acts on the change of names, as well as with the  attempt to clean up ethnically from 1989, still continue to be missing the voices of  the Bulgarian Muslims and Turks themselves.  That is why today I decided to present one of my guests to be a professor for ENEP ZFR, whom I welcome with a welcome to the history with Stefan Dechev and I welcome her, she is in her home in Ankara.  Thank you, Mr. Dechev.  Could you tell our viewers something more about yourself, your early childhood, they have a basic education, that is, they have a completed education, until seventh grade. I have heard from two of my grandmothers that in 2012 the people who were forced to flee and reach the Aegean Sea, to go down to Anatolia. But this problem started to interest me more after 1964,  when I was actually 6 years old,  I witnessed the first experience  of the name change, of the promotion of the first attempt to name the Bulgarians during this period or during the 1960s.  Actually, I had heard from my grandmother, who is from Palatik,  and who, returning from the White Sea, could not reach their native place,  they settled in the village of Kornitsa,  and they were given shelter in the village's mosque.  How the Pope and Popeess also lived in the mosque,  and other civil servants, who in of 2012 started to change their names or call the population of the village Kornuta.  This is during the crusade, during the Balkan war, which we War with Dr. Zelen Gora a while ago. Yes, yes, yes.  She remembers, she was 6 years old, 7 years old after returning from there, 6 months passed.  She told me that this lasted 6 months.  And when 1964 started again, by the way, the men had fled the forest, there was a lot of snow, but somehow we believed that what happened in 2012 would happen again in 1964 and something would happen again. to be Bulgarians. By the way, I am six years older than my brother,  he is two and a half years younger than me.  I was sent from my mother to her mother  to make the connection between the two families,  because only the women remained in the two families.  From time to time I saw policemen or people from the commission, they had to be from the, because I didn't know them, who were holding people in the council.  I went back home and talked about these things. when everything passed and when people went out on the street and started celebrating the fact that the names would not be changed,  that something had happened again and this policy had not succeeded.  So after that period, from 1964 onwards, I really started to be more interested in life.  And my two grandmothers, my mother's mother was 10 years old, my father's mother was 6 years old,  and my two grandmothers with their family went on a walk, I have already said, to Greece now,  and they returned to the path of what had happened, of the murder, of the killing in the village of Kornica,  of the rape and of everything that had happened  in the 12-13 years.  And Barli told me that after 6 years  all of this collapsed and we returned again  to the religion and the names.  The year 1964 actually 1964 lasted several days,  at least I remember.  But then everything was released again,  weddings and funerals began to take place freely.  We were really happy.  How did you explain to yourself  that the attempt to change the names had passed?  What did you give it back then? Or at least the elderly?  The religious people believed that Allah had helped them,  while others thought that the reason was the protest in Ribnovo,  but there were protests almost everywhere, as I told you, in Kornitsa. Because immediately after 1964, the people who were most active were imprisoned.  There was Ibrahim Bokmakov, who was imprisoned and deported.  His son tells him that he was in Belene.  I personally remember this man from 1973, I will tell you about him later. I have published in a magazine the memories of his son.  He was a very close friend of my father and another man, a well-known person.  I can say that from 1964 to 1969, around 1970, the people were working, getting married, having weddings, having fun, but gradually...  But what did it mean to help yourself in Bulgaria between 1964 and the end of 1960. Yes, I heard this for the first time,  I heard this in school,  when they were making propaganda  or when they said,  you are Pumaci,  and I had to ask my father,  because in our folk songs,  everywhere, and my grandmother never used the word  for Mace, she always said we are the Turks and they are the Bulgarians.  Actually, the Turks and the Bulgarians, even Muslims were not used then.  And when I asked my father, my father was a very big opponent of communism, because he was a vulture. My grandmother is my grandmother's brother.  He was sent to Belene, first to Bobovdol, and then to Belene, in connection with the Goryansk movement.  He was there, so our whole family passed through there. My family was in the village, my father first in Bovodol, then in Belene, and after that he was released from Belene.  He did not tell, but my father told me a lot about these things, especially, for example, we had neighbors,  I had a co-student, a Bulgarian, whose parents were mothers, and as a small child she was evicted,  and her grandfather had fled to Greece and nothing was heard from him.  So there were many families around us, evicted,  both from our people, from the Mace, and from the Bulgarians.  From the Bulgarians in 1949-1950, from Lizhnitsa, from Breznitsa, from everywhere.  Some of them then went to Turkey, some for Breznica, and some for Turkey.  So, the question is whether the border was illegally crossed?  Did they cross the border illegally at the end of the 1950s?  No, no, no. They were deported in the 1950s, in the year of 1949, 1948, 1949.  The regular exchange, yes. There were settlements in northern Bulgaria, they settled in Plachkovci and in the villages around Plachkovci and then they moved to Turkey in 1951.  So my grandmother's eldest sister then, for Turkey.  During those years, when you were in that I would not believe in history.  Besides, I did not believe in history, I was even more so that I had heard about what we have experienced.  Because in history terrible things were said, we were the leaders, the Muslims and Turks. I do not think that people are still like that.  Even more so, I know about the case  when my great-grandfather was killed in 1914.  Before that, his father was killed.  I was already talking about Palatik.  Then, he was in Belene.  And these things that I personally saw in 1964  made me not believe in history and some literary writings,  so I studied only for grades, I argued with the teachers, of course, but in the early 70s, in the early 70s, for us the school was a terrible thing for us.  An inquisition started.  They just didn't tell us the subjects,  they constantly told us propaganda texts,  they read them, they let us on our radio stations,  we ran through the corridors of various...  Excuse me, Zeneb, something is wrong down there. We ran through the corridors, we started to go out, and then we ended up in the middle of the radio,  we were all against the school, against the politics.  The population in Kornitsa was already shocked,  because they started changing the names of newborns. In general, the atmosphere in the village was such that  you could not live in a calm environment,  with every change of day,  they were getting more and more,  and we could not practice our traditions,  to have weddings.  They stopped doing it.  Do you remember when you first heard  in the early 70s that the names were changed?  That a new campaign was starting  and this time it was obviously more decisive  from the government.  I heard from the very beginning, because my father constantly listened to the radio,  he received newspapers and everything that happened in the beginning in the Smolensk region,  of course they had a connection, he was learning and he was a man who shared absolutely everything with me, even though I was small.  So I learned everything he actually learned from his neighbors or from other people.  What kind of radio did you listen to?  He listened to Western radio stations. There was a radio over the wall,  put together, and the first thing to do was to turn on the radio.  Before the radio stopped, it actually worked and so it stopped.  As I said, he received almost all newspapers and tried to read between the lines  to understand what was actually happening in Bulgaria.  Yes, and what was the behavior of the Bulgarian authorities when the name was changed?  What do you remember from the name change in 1972-1973?  Unfortunately, I remember everything, because I was already in 1972-1974, and in 1973 I was 15 years old.  And because, as I said, we were repressed the violence in Bulgaria, against the assimilation policy.  So I knew all this and I constantly listened to it in school.  I also tried to understand what happens and what they talk about in the school.  Besides, it was not impossible for us children not to feel,  because not only in the school, but we no with the elderly, we were waiting for the names to be changed in the village,  because we heard outside in other villages what had happened.  There were talks of victims, of murdered women and girls.  Of course, after that I realized that some were faithful, some of them were not faithful, but all sorts of rumors came to our village, to the elderly and all this we, the children, know.  When you say we didn't have holidays, we didn't have weddings, you have... weren't they imposed such things because of the anxiety? Yes, yes. They were already forbidden, it was not possible.  People were also not in the mood to get married.  People were already married secretly, they did not exclude civil marriages,  because they had to get married.  The names, the children did not register.  The women were forced to be born at home,  in very difficult conditions, only in the most critical situations,  they were sent to Godse Delychev.  And there they had to change the names of their children.  The women, I remember, the mothers of the newborns,  attacked the council to take out the registered Bulgarian names of the newborns.  So the people who did not have children felt happy that they did not have children and that they would not with Bulgarian names. You were 15 years old during the conflict.  Can you tell us about these events?  What actually happened in your native Kornitsa at that time? And the worst thing that happened was that a neighbor of ours, Ramazan, came to our village,  it was 1972, he told about what they had done in a village in Kazanvyshko, in Dolno Izvorovo, how they had been opposed for several months  and how in the end they managed to convince the police  to refuse to change their names.  And this was a piece of news that gave  great hope to all people and they decided that  if we do the same and oppose it,  because they constantly claimed that all this is voluntary,  no one will rape us, we ourselves have to decide,  because it is necessary for the unification of the nation,  for Bulgaria to develop more and more successfully,  and so on. You know the propaganda, the communist propaganda,  people refused, of course.  And after this connection of our village, or the more prominent people of our village,  with the people from Lzhnitsa, Breznitsa and Kornitsa, who lived there, began to have a more organized opposition.  Despite this, there was also an organized opposition before.  The fathers of the children had been to Sofia, they had written protest letters that their children were being raped by Bulgarian men, that they would not accept this.  These things were actually organized by the young people. and in fact gave a much bigger blow to all the villagers to join this opposition,  so that they could manage to keep their names.  That was actually the mockery that was done with the people who were detained outside the village, with our workers outside the village,  they were tortured, drunk and brought to the village and if we do not allow them to enter the village and take the elderly one by one and and to They were on state duty, they actually resigned from this job.  For this reason, one of these brigadiers, who had also filed a resignation letter,  was arrested by Godse Delchev in one of the cars and they wanted to take him from home and put him from Godse Delchev and wanted to take him from the house and drive him to Godse Delchev.  Then the whole, first the women, then the men gathered and did not allow the next woman to be taken and driven to Godse Delchev and maltreated.  But after they did not allow, I was also there, of course, because I was everywhere, I was very active.  After we were not allowed to go there, two or three hours passed, they came with border guards, border dogs,  they were carrying horses and soldiers, until I realized that there was troops had arrived in the village,  our people gathered again, lit the fire because it was very hot, and they started to wait.  The soldiers passed by, but the people were frightened, they could not stay at home anymore.  And so, on January 23, 1973, the process of organizing the people from the village of Kornitsa began,  which lasted until March 29, when we were attacked by troops, volunteers, militia, military, armored transport,ewitnesses say, the whole highway was full of equipment,  transport vehicles that entered Kornitsa and carried in the most brutal way. In fact, the Luzhnitsa also came,  they made meetings several times in our village  to convince us to agree.  Everyone changed their names,  why are we opposing?  We were Bulgarians,  will the Turks also change their names?  And so on. I personally heard from Dilgerov who said  that this is not being talked about much,  do not be afraid, soon we will change the names of the Turks,  but this was not something that could be done for us.  You are talking about the first secretary of the district committee of the Party of Blagoevgrad.  Yes, the first secretary of the district committee of the Communist Party Committee.  He came several times.  Many people came from Lzhnitsa and participated in these meetings.  They listened. Of course, we ignored them.  We didn't want to listen to them because they lied to us,  looking us in the eyes, that they had nothing to do with anyone,  they had nothing to do with anything bad, They did not behave badly, no one was beaten,  all of this was voluntary.  From Breznitsa, which is a little further away from us,  a little less people participated, but they also came.  But both villages had told us that they were happy with our protest,  that if something happens, they would come and support us.  So they also supported us.  And we knew about it, they had patrols every night.  If something happened, we had to let go.  The lamps of the mosque, which actually lit during the month of Ramadan in the morning when we had to start eating and in the evening when the fasts were actually completed.  What do you remember from the square, there were the fireworks.  Me and my first brother, Chetka, we were there until 1 o'clock, and the mother told us,  go home already, you will be late. We of women, children, men, they called for help, they attacked us,  I quickly went out and saw that fire and the tanks were coming towards us.  That was when they killed my father-in-law.  I didn't know that he was the one who called out that Yusen Karahalilov was killed.  I went to him, I was at the bakery, right before us.  That man was lying on his face, I could only see his face.  When I went to touch him, I thought he was wounded because blood was flowing from his head.  They surrounded us, the soldiers, and everyone said,  run, I saw the man, my sister-in-law, my brother,  he said, Zenev, let's go on because they surround us,  we broke through the blockade and I went to my grandmother on the river.  Going to my grandmother, I stayed there because I could not go home,  because it was full of police, horse army and so on,  and several men were And in the house several men had hidden,  they came to the house, they discovered the men,  the whole house was like that, because actually  my aunt Lele was walking in the village,  they entered his room, took all the Korans, all the books,  and we were... a girl who had also hidden there, me,  one of the monks, not Lelemi, I don't know where,  their husband was exiled, and the soldiers said to a girl who was two years older than me, girl, come down to fix the room.  Actually, I'm sure they would have raped her if she had left,  but the woman of this, she said,  come on, if necessary, I will go down to fix the room.  She doesn't know anything, she is not from this house.  I actually caught my child's bed and that's how it ended.  It was there that those who were on the street started to shout,  these soldiers and civilians,  the Luzhnitsa is coming to help, the Luzhnitsa is coming to help.  And from this place where I am, I saw the hill of the Luzhnitsa, from where the people really went down.  Zeynep, there is a problem with the camera, it disappeared.  Yes.  You closed the camera without asking. Yes, now it's good.  Yes. In fact, I managed to see from there how they came out of the houses to drive them to the school and to lock them up one by one,  actually they stopped dealing with us and started chasing the liars who had to help us. and suddenly they started to shout in the streets, because the house was on two houses from the main street of the village,  to say that Breznitsa is coming, Breznitsa is coming, go on.  And with horses they started to go to Breznitsa. Of course, it was't see from there. After that, I started to say that I had to go home.  I don't know what happened to my mother, my father, what happened to them.  I went down and asked, there were civilians,  I asked, can I go home?  They said, what are you doing here?  I said, I barely live here, go quickly.  And I went to my house, it was very close, I went to my house,  our house is exactly to the square,  just after a very short time my father was not at home,  my uncle was not at home,  the people who had hidden from the fight, from all this, were at home.  My mother told me that they were taken and expelled outside the house.  And we stayed at home, only my grandmother, my cousin's wife, who was beaten in the school,  and the whole family was in the blue, my mother, who came out of me because she was sick,  me, my brother and two children, actually four children,  four children and two wives and my grandmother.  And at one point civilians arrived again and said,  take something from my pocket and come with us.  Where are we going? Ask us a lot, take it.  And we were wondering what to take, we started to take something,  and one of them said, if there is something, a bean or something else, take a little bean and go." And my grandmother, she could not say anything else,  she called all the ladies and gentlemen,  and she said,  but gentlemen, why are you doing this?  I said, gentlemen, why are you doing this?  What am I going to do?  They just left her alone in the house.  Here alone we have animals, everything, and then, because my mother is sick,  she is leaving, Chicho's wife told me,  I will leave my daughter, can she stay here?  She left with the youngest daughter, two years older than me,  me, my brother and my mother took us to the hospital, we saw trucks there,  they drove us to the hospital, full of people, wounded, blood, they took us to the truck and we ran.  The truck was parked, no one told us where, with soldiers with machine guns, at the end of the truck.  In fact, there were very few men in the trucks.  There were full of women and children.  Most of them were drunk, blue, as I say, faces or crossed.  And they drove us, I think, to Sinitli, the train station.  There they took us to Vlak,  from Vlak we went to the lower part,  Sofia they threw us there,  they didn't let anyone approach us,  from there they took us to another Vlak,  from there to the lower Dabnik,  and from the lower Dabnik they started to take us to trucks,  discovered trucks in this village,  there were also other trucks with which they drove us to Simitli.  From there, two families took us.  Our family and actually the son of my uncle, my grandmother's brother,  who was in Belene, Husein Babechkin, but he did not have it,  neither did my father, of course.  His wife was, the eldest child was in the first grade,  or was it the second grade?  One was, yes, the first grade boy, the girl was five years old,  and the youngest boy, 3 years old.  I was 15, my brother was 12, because he was born much later than me.  And so they left us in a village, which we later called the village of Slavovitsa in Pleven, they did not want to stay village and we actually understood where the family is.  Actually, I told my mother that I had seen a Voychum, because there was another person, who was also called Hussein Karahalil.  I do not know who he was, whether it was Voychum or someone else. They are first brothers in the family.  You do not know if Voychum is still alive or dead?  I do not know anything. I think he was wounded. When I came back, I saw the blood there.  Excuse me, Zene, the camera is not working again.  There is a problem with the camera.  I saw the blood of my husband, but no one knows about the relatives.  My father came to us, we received a telegram, after about 9 days, my father wrote that he would come to you tomorrow,  after 10 days he came to us, after 2 days he was sent, and after that, of course, we understood that my that Voichvomi was killed.  How long did you spend in Slavovica with the relatives?  Actually, since March 28, but unfortunately, the order says March 28, and in the order on March of us on March 29th.  It is written that we were sent in May,  so this continues and no one wants to make this mistake,  because they sent us without any order from the Ministry of Internal Affairs  and then decided to issue an order to deport all these people with the next party from other families.  And what is the basis of this decree? What is the basis for the expulsion?  that the pro-Turkish nationalism and opposition to the assimilatory policy should be seen in the same light, because we have several documents, but my father is a pro-Turkish nationalist,  and we were without a certain term,  forever, for life maybe,  but a decision came out for liberation.  We were on September 23, 1977, we received,  in fact, they gave us an order to be released,  but only a month later we received another order.  In the file of our father there is this order in which it is said that we will be canceled the order for eviction has been rejected, but we have no right to return to our native village  and we have to continue living in the village of Slavovice.  So we were not free.  By the way, this happens to many of our other relatives,  even people from the prison who leave without a prison sentence are exiled.  Then the intervention begins with the decision of the party members,  friends and other members of the state security.  And you are 77 years old, you are almost 20 years old, right?  Yes, 77. By the way, until then they tried to make us change our names, and they took out our passports, they were in Pleven,  they were filming by force, I found these photos in my file.  Then I was a full-time soldier, my mother and my father,  we did not accept these passports, of course, and they returned them.  My father wrote several letters, honest ones, to Blagoevgrad, to Gosidelchev,  and then we left our fathers there.  Together with the other family, because there was an order, we just ran away from there.  In 1978 we went to live in a village, almost semi-illegal, in Tolbuchensko,  in the village of Feltveko, in the village of Fjeldfej-Galdianko. We lived there until the next campaign for the change of names in 1984-1985.  What do you remember from this campaign in 1984-1985?  Can it be compared to what you saw in 1972-73?  What I saw in 1972-73 were repetitions in Krdzhalinsko,  but much more light and fast.  We had experts, they had experience and knew that everything had to be done with many soldiers, many participants and very quickly.  So, in fact, when everything was happening in Krizhali, people listened to Radio Free Europe, I heard a lot about it, and Deutsche Welle, and all Western radio stations,  but they didn't believe us because they were making propaganda,  that as they were saying to us, they were making propaganda,  you are pure Turks, these people in Kyrgyzstan are not pure,  so we changed the names of the party members,  there the leaders were having meetings with the party leaders, with the teachers,  they were told that they should not be afraid, but then the free people took stock of it all at once,  and then it was clear. Of course, we as people with experience,  by the way, I forgot to mention that when my father was being investigated,  they also did the same to him, a laborer, in 1982,  I was dismissed on June 6th, 1982,  he died of labor in the age of the Zlopolka prison at the age of 48 on June 9.  He was investigated. There is absolutely nothing in his file.  There is no protocol for the robbery.  He also wanted to change his name.  But let's go back to the 84-85th war. The people I believed in said,  they will soon come here and they will change your names.  We had shared with someone about what had happened in Rosasna, they knew,  but they believed that Turkey would allow them to change our names.  We are Turks, this is impossible, they say it will not happen.  I just have to tell you that, among other things, from Turkey, on Turkish radio and others, and through people who were guests then. I can tell you that in Yablo, for example, in January, there were guests and peasants when this happened.  Exactly during these days, they from Turkey said,  in fact, the people who were then in power or the other hall was the Minister-President, look not to enter the prisons, not to be expelled, this cannot continue.  You cannot do anything.  After they decided to change your mind with weapons, you should not oppose.  Such rumors really indeed such people.  And that is why they changed their names very quickly in Northern Bulgaria.  We did not change them again, as people with experience.  I was at a class yesterday in my student book,  the last session was on January 30th.  That is, when I changed my name, I was in the January session.  January 30th, 1985.  Yes, in 1985.  I was a student there, because after I retired for a year, I worked in the village department,  then my student rights were restored and I left for good, because this was my love.  And so they told me at the university, maybe this is better for you, and I left for good.  However it went, in Shumen everything was visible, there were tanks on the streets.  Colleagues who were regular and who were conducting tests at that time,  you know that the January session was being conducted,  they were called, the decanates were being threatened, they were being forced to change their names.  I spoke to all the Turks because I knew them very well, we were together before,  we had meetings, we all knew each other very well.  And imagine, they had to show up on the test and they changed their names.  They were just in a practice in a school, a gymnasium, Nikola Yonkov in Starov, in Shumen.  I decided to see what was happening in the school, what the teachers were constantly moving around the streets,  I was in an apartment with Turks who told me how the names of the students in the former VPA were changed.  And the police with people, the soldiers, some of them were in military uniforms, and I asked them what they were doing.  The Turks told me, they sent us because they were sending us because they were changing our names.  They gave us a leave, those who changed their names gave us a leave, that's what they did with the boys before.  And I decided to go in with them, when I already knew that they were going to Shumen that day.  I went to the gymnasium and a boy was running out of the door, I was outside and I asked him,  where are you going, what is happening?  He said, move away.  And I went in, I went into the teacher's room,  there was such a conversation.  They had left the class,  at that time they had informed the little students  that they had to change their names.  And they had such a conversation, because my teacher, with whom I actually did an internship,  was not there, no one knew me, they didn't know that I was married.  And they said, this Zagolekar's son most demonstratively let go his voice.  Then I realized that this boy was the son of Zagorekar Ochumen.  Everyone spoke like that.  They were Bulgarians and they were from the Hametans,  actually from the Turks,  and they were made by the Turks,  although they spoke Turkish,  that's why their family names were changed. They are Turkish and they are doing something that they speak Turkish, so they change their names.  I did not hear anyone say that this is not right in the teacher's room.  Then I went out in the afternoon and waited for the next hour.  I went out again and the girls were crying in the corridor. Zeynep, how do you explain that the Bulgarians have become victims of this official indoctrination?  I explain it with the lies that have been constantly written in history and literature, with the propaganda that was being done against the population,  so that there would be hatred against the Turks, against the Muslims, against the Fomans.  This is the propaganda that...  But the professors and academics are making up fat books with all their authority, right?  Yes, yes, of course. Everyone was interested in it, even some people, even if they didn't believe, they knew that it was more convenient to keep silent and do what they were told.  They couldn't say it out loud, but I will tell you about one of my colleagues, a colleague of mine, Svetlana Chervenbryag, who told merag Svetlana, who, what did they tell me when they changed their names,  she was also a kindergarten student, but she wanted to finish this gymnasium in Shumen.  The girls were crying and saying, but they want to change their names.  They told us that they had to. I told them, why do you have to change their names,  to talk to their parents,  which meant that there were no phones at that time.  And they said that they had not met at all,  they spoke Turkish, of course,  and that's why they believed me,  otherwise they couldn't believe someone  if he spoke Bulgarian to them.  Okay, then we should take our bags and leave.  So, I managed to tell this to some girls.  This was in Schumen.  We actually had an absolvent session,  which I did not participate in,  because we were actually in the last session.  My colleague from Red Beach, Svetlana, told me,  if you want to go to Red River, I will hide you and I will not hide you.  I am against that.  I said to myself that I cannot hide from that,  but I thank her sincerely for the fact that a Bulgarian  took this risk and said,  I will hide you, don't change your name, and so on.  Actually, I left at 30, I returned to the village, I had already requested, of course,  a permit, given that I had night classes, I was there with my family,  they did not deal with the widows, with my family, I returned to and saw that the house was only the mother and the little ones,  my mother, my cousins' mother, and my brother, my cousin, had hidden and they were gone.  The whole village was already with changed names, they were hiding somewhere,  and we waited for what could happen, for them to come and take us,  and so we changed our names. Of course, we received prizes,  about one month after the Toglokhina Mevere, to appear in Mevere.  I have this prize in my folder.  This was in February 1985, right?  Yes, yes, yes, this was already in February, I think it was February, and they stopped us there, they tried to blame us,  because I told my father, among other things, to my great-grandfather,  I said, there is no point in you standing and hiding,  go outside, everyone has already changed their names,  let's see what will happen.  And when they called us, they didn't hold him, they let us go.  He was a suspect, when he was accused of not giving us these advice,  not to change his name, they sent him to the police department.  We didn't change our names, but they told us that there was nothing we could do,  we couldn't hold money from the customs customs, we could not move anywhere, we were standing.  And again they changed their names, but then they said that if you do not change your name,  and here you are a bad example for the people, we will expel you either from here or we will take you back. Because we thought we were doing something, some kind of protest,  we decided to leave the mothers alone, to leave them somewhere in a safer place  and then decide what to do. We were already four. There were four of us. The two boys from the two families left for Pleven, we were still residents of Pleven.  The names of all of us were changed there, we thought that it was already April.  They returned, gave us signs that we could move to Plesk, otherwise no one could move.  From there we sold some things, we had animals, we loaded the luggage and left for the village of Chumenko,  where we had some acquaintances and relatives who lived in this village for a very long time, for many years.  We bought a house, we became married mothers and we decided to do something to was telling the truth about what was happening.  We had already heard a lot about the of course, on the Free Europe, on BBC and other radio stations, we knew everything from there.  We decided to have two of our colleagues from Tobokhin,  the sixth, to try to enter some kind of Western embassy, to call journalists and tell what happened and what we have been through for so many years,  for the repressions and for the violent assassination, the violent repression from the 70s or 60s to the 80s.  He was a college student in Sofia, he had the Bulgarian embassy and had learned how to enter.  We were six and we just didn't make it.  The second plan was to escape through the Bulgarian-Roman border,  to enter the Turkish embassy and to ask for journalists to tell us what was happening in Bulgaria.  It was exactly then that the date was announced that Kenan Nevren will visit Romania.  We had made it so that when we managed to get to Bucharest in the Anglican Embassy,  we would be able to go to Bucharest and so on.  And we really did not manage to get there, we went back to Dobrich,  but our brother, who was with a beard, was not allowed to take a ticket by plane.  We arrived in Varna, we waited for him, he arrived with a train, and so we went to Silistra, we crossed the border, we slept in a family in a town there, we managed to get to Bukhores very early with a taxi, and waited for about 10 hours to be able to enter.  However, when we approached, the Romanian police surrounded us, or security police, as they called these forces then, and they detained us and drove us to Bucharest.  There they investigated us for two days and nights, after which they handed us over through Gurgiev questions to the Bulgarian authorities.  Just to tell you that this night the Bulgarian authorities had given 9 fugitives.  The first were from Krdzhali, they had tried to swim to the Danube,  one of the girls had arrived, the other one did not know what the situation was,  the other one had returned, but we did not meet them until we waited for the cars to come from the district authorities, where we are residents, to take us and drive us to the respective villages.  The two groups have nothing in common. It's just that they are victims of political assimilation.  No, no, no. While they were driving us with the catapult, a boy with a transistor and a rubber band in his arm was also put into the boat.  The Romanian policeman pressed the button of the transistor and started singing Turkish songs.  After we started talking to the boy in Turkish, he told us about the three of them,  how they went through the night to cross the tunnel.  And then we met them together in the stage in Rus.  And we saw the other two with whom it happened.  It was something terrible.  People really did not go, as in the Kyrgyz, they did not have the opportunity to protest,  because they were surrounded by stumps and so on.  But they ran away. There are many suicides.  In this village, where we were, in Afyavve Beldyankovo, after a few days, a man was killed.  I know of many suicides in Eastern Bulgaria. This question is not at all...  Suicide as a protest against the change of name. They can't accept it.  Or some after the cruel in the militia, after the cruel there,  they go back to their homes, they and cannot stay,  because they are doing things to themselves.  There was a case of my colleague Chumek,  who was killed by a man with a gun.  There are many such cases,  no one thinks about how much the victims  of this inhuman, violent, bulgarization of Muslims, Roma, Muslims, Turks?  The number of victims, as you know better than me, is probably over a million and a half.  What happened afterwards that? After that we were investigated.  When we were arrested in Romania, we gave all sorts of addresses to the people we stayed with.  On the way to Turkey we understood what we were going to talk about. We actually told the Romanian authorities everything. They brought us maps, told us and they told us,  I emphasize, the security of Ceaușescu told us this.  What you told us here, will remain here.  Everything else you want to say, you will say it in Bulgaria,  we will not give any evidence.  And they really said what they wanted to say, because we wanted to get a very big decision,  because we told what we could not tell the journalists from Romania.  And then we talked about it. So you mean that the Romanian police have felt you, but have fulfilled the agreement with Bulgaria?  Yes, they said that we have an agreement with them, so we are obliged to return you.  There were two Bulgarian and Turkish translators, we worked with them,  but anyway, we had enough time to understand the following.  No one will know that we made an attempt to enter the English state.  We will say that we went to Sofia to take our sister's brother in law, Yusuf Babichki,  from there we left, from there we left, he was not taken by plane, we left, we went to Romania and so on.  And our results were so similar that they did not judge us for creating an organization.  Why did you leave? Because did you not mention your names? But our two friends, a girl and a boy from Dobrich, gave a smaller sentence, only a year and a half of exilment.  And we, as recidivists, who were written that we are still long years, we are heirs...  And you are still from from the 72nd to the 3rd.  Yes, we are a family of anti-communists and Turkish nationalists.  That is why we accept the right path of the Bulgarian Communist Party  to unite this population into the United Bulgarian Nation.  You know this terminology.  Yes, the one socialist nation.  The socialist nation, I can say that.  That's why we were given two years of confinement and two years of eviction,  and the girls were given two years and four and four months and two years in prison.  The brother and sister stayed together in the same village.  We moved with my cousin to her former prison. I want to tell you about the women who were in prison, who were put through one oritations to invite people to protest in Kyrgyzstan against the assimilation. There was a girl who was one of the participants and a member of the organization in the protests in Mumchil Grad.  There was a woman from Yablonova who had written a letter to the trade hall and told about the bloody destruction of the peaceful protest of the population of Yablo in New January against the violent bulgarization.  Therefore, she was sentenced to 5 years, and because she did not know that she was pregnant, she gave birth to the child in prison.  She was over 45 years old.  There was a woman from Shumen, Akosherka, who was also there and was sentenced to two years,  for writing a letter to Dr. Zhitkov, in which she said that in fact the name of Sveta was not voluntarily approved by the authorities.  This was from the idea of a good two, or just wanted to protest?  Exactly. But they found out that she was a woman and she was in prison. There were two girls married.  There was also other experience of marriage, and no, as they say, three in the front, and then the other non-combatant was released and moved to a secluded place. Arista, of course, then we already got to know other old She was very brave for the gold trade, Magda Vaitova. She told us about all those who passed through there,  specifically about the protest against the assimilation,  she gave us data.  And even food was taken away from me, because I was very hungry,  to have strength.  But after I got out of prison, I had to move to the settlement.  By the way, our two brothers were also in Belina, but in the first district.  And in the first district there were many, now it is clear that people who were in the second district in Belene, but there were also over 20 people, maybe 30, who were in Belene prison under arrest.  This is precisely why the assimilator policy was opposed not only in Stara Zagora and Pazarchik, but also in the first part of the Belene prison.  How many years did you spend in the Slivenski prison? I was transferred to Russia and detained on July 11, 1985.  On November 27, 1986, I left.  The difference was only a couple of days, because my brother-in-law left after me,  because they were calculating the working days there and some exchange was obtained.  So I left two days before her, 17 months, because we worked instead of two years, 24 months I stayed.  How far did you manage to get with your higher education? I told you about the eye exercises and the last session I had a test and I had stayed.  Until then I had another test.  I want to say which courses?  Yes, with the changes of names.  Until June, this remained my last course.  In the 80s I entered, then left with the state exams.  And when I was already evicted, I had to work again and I was given the right to study.  After the Slivenski prison, where did you live?  I had to go to the village of Botjevo, where we had two years of eviction. I had to take my mother.  I asked the prosecutor for a suspension because I had 10 days to stay.  It was winter.  After a month with my mother, my brother-in-law drove us with the car to Botchevo Mihaylovdravsko.  My brother-in-law away before me. Her father was already exiled from Belene, exiled from the second district.  Her mother had gone to her father, and she had gone alone to the village of Cherni Vrh, Mikhailo Gradsko, close to Gotyevo.  I must emphasize that in all these villages there were at least two families of displaced people.  We were three in our village, or two, but two people, because these white people and others who only have a settlement were settled in the north-west of Bulgaria.  Of course, there were very afraid of us,  treated us very badly, but soon they understood what we were representing.  They became our defenders, they were our thinkers.  We had very good relations with them, they didn't lie to us much.  So they told us and we left.  We made a connection with them. We were constantly in touch, we supported each other materially and morally.  And that's how we lived in the country.  How did your activity within the independent society for human rights come about?  Well, over time, of course, we, because we constantly went with a transistor everywhere, according to my father's traditions,  we listened and learned about the creation of an independent society that protects the rights of the person.  We just watched with great joy how the members of the Society, without being afraid,  tried to create an organization.  Then we heard the statement of Giusun Otvarna,  who talked about the main point of his husband.  That's why we decided to contact this organization,  because the secretary and the speaker of the association were in Mikhailo Grad.  That is why we sent the youngest brother, the boy, who was 3 years old when we moved to Glevensk,  he was over 18 years old, and we could not go to Mikhailo Grad, we were settled,  the teachers were connected with each of them, and the secretary was Dimitar Tomov.  And in this way we became, in fact, we first wanted to protect our rights,  because they claimed that they were protecting the rights of all citizens in Bulgaria.  We were one of the people who were constantly repressed for decades,  close to 60 years, if we make a estimate, 20 years, over 20 years.  And they said, yes, of course, but we want to connect with the Turks,  at the moment they are the most vulnerable, they need help,  I also think that they will also join, you can make contact with them.  We said yes, we are not afraid, we have nothing against it.  And we joined the four of us,  while we left in the shadow Kemal, the little one,  who connected us so that he could always be the reserve.  But he was, of course, he knew everything and was constantly with us and was an active participant in all our activities.  What do you remember about the main fight of Peter Manolov and the Mayas?  Yes, we were connected, they began to contact us with Western journalists, they failed.  Because of this, the police, from Mihailo Gratni or LOM, LOM from the police forced us to return to Shumen,  although we had not yet completed the exhumation.  In December, the king of December had to hear mine. In October they made us return to Shumen,  when they said that in Shumen we had a part in the militia,  and that in the evening of 19.40 was a certain hour of the morning.  We passed by and they told us to return to the village and wait for us to come back.  We protested, we were exiled. Why are you returning here?  Because they were actually distance from Mikhailgrad, but after we understood that they would leave us,  we decided to build a structure there among the people of this area, who already knew about our history, that we were in the background of our exiled, for some of them we were already, for example, for the continuation.  What do you remember from the May events of 1989?  The Mayan events of 1989. Before they kicked us out of there, we of course left.  People who were to replace us, a very good organization was already created.  And what do I remember?  We again watched all the radio stations, the Turkish radio and television. So when we heard about the bloodshed of the peaceful protests,  we in the Bursa, some dissidents who are fighting against the violence assimilation in Bursa,  we made a protest of the main point in support of the protest of the main old woman in support of the people's desire to return their names,  to allow them to exercise their religious and national holidays freely. But in May I was invited by several people to participate in the Paris conference.  There I had the opportunity to meet with Peter Boidzheev, Peter Manolov, Fuscolo was there. We tried to give the interview and tell the Western journalists, the Western society,  about what it was like to fight for the people, for the victims,  and the truth about the Mayan events and the bloodshed of the peaceful protests of the people of Southeast Bulgaria and then, of course, of Southeast.  Professor Zafer, can you tell us what is the best thing that happened between 1989 and 2024.  I want to ask, what has changed?  What is the difference now, 35-40 years after these events,  in the relationship between Bulgaria and Turkey, between Bulgarians and Turks,  between Christians and Turkey, between Bulgarians and Turks, between Christians and Muslims?  Many things have changed, I can say that. First, people can freely to Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, they can come to the city,  to see the country they write about, they wrote and still write, unfortunately rest in the coasts that there are in the oceans,  to see the attitude of the people.  Some of the Bulgarians were persecuted in 1989,  and the local population, to see that they never talk about tourists. You did this to the people of Bulgaria.  This is not talked about.  I think many Bulgarians are surprised even to this day that they are not connected to this.  Yes, they are afraid, but the scary thing is that these things continue, in Bulgaria they continue.  I want to tell you something about the history.  When one of our friends from Belene, whom I know, who wrote a memoir,  writes in his memoir that after Belene he was born in Bogovdol, and then he went to a village there, near Bogovdol,  he went to live in a family there,  and in the morning, when he went downstairs,  and for the first time the child, because when he arrived it was late,  and the child had not seen him,  in the morning he arrived, his mother and father,  and he went downstairs, he said hello, and the boy said to his parents,  why he doesn't have a yatagan?  He knew that he had a name, he had grown up from his parents, that there was a Turkish man, that he would live in them,  and he expected to see a exact same thing from the history,  from what is written.  But to tell you about the fact that in today's history,  the purpose for children, even not for students,  for children until the school age, there are such terrible things, I just don't know how a person can fight this propaganda.  I will tell you a little bit about the good things.  And thanks to the efforts of the Foundation Truth and Memory with the President Christo Hristov,  a lot has been done to change some textbooks.  But I will tell you about one textbook, for example,  I learned about it last year, for the third class  – Man and Society.  The children of my brother-in-law are the only children  with a student name in the class.  And when they have a lesson, which is called  Bulgaria in the Ottoman Empire, all children begin to look at it, as she says,  with bloodshot eyes, like a man who has killed.  Because this period is summarized there and they think that this is an absolute literal summary of the novel  Time Separated.  This is an edition from 2021.  But let me tell you some good things that are not small.  The first years in Bulgaria were truly, from democracy, there were really many things,  and I can say that for all Bulgarian citizens  the expectations were much higher than what happened after that.  That is, the transition, no one thought that the transition would be so difficult, so slow, so difficult.  But that's what happened and this difficult transition carries with it many such negative things, I am not talking about these stories here, but people have the freedom to move, to go wherever they want, or there are Turks, although for the Roma it is a little more difficult,  I think that for them the response is much better,  the best is for the Turks, then for the Roma and the most difficult for the Roma.  There are some restrictions in the university, in the attitude of people.  When you don't know the name, the attitude is different, when you hear the name, you are a little shocked.  I personally have seen it. And now I continue with the left, but not all of them, of course. Because I have so many friends and acquaintances,  with whom I always come with great desire.  For example, I can say that you also have many researches,  I would like to thank you personally here.  Colleagues from Blagoevgrad have been working for a long time on the Chiren project  and with documents for the National Sun Sim of the palm trees from the area.  And thanks to them and the assistance of the mayor of Gotse Djelchev,  for example, Vladimir Moskov, it became possible, unthinkably before,  to hold a conference on the 50th anniversary of the Kornishkite Vesti and the publication of the magazine.  This was on November 18, 2023, when people could come and hear the reports on these issues.  So, there are really many changes, but there are still many things to be done.  I think that this should be achieved through joint efforts,  and especially with the leading role of the institutions, the public and the politicians.  Of course, the biggest role is with the politicians, but unfortunately, the politicians always want to be concerned about their own interests  and usually things that society, the society of the child, does not allow themselves due to political crises, due to interests.  And many people suffer, as we say, many people do not know about these things.  Why did I tell you? It is very difficult for me, sometimes I can not stand it, because I experience these things again,  but I feel obliged to tell so that this will never happens again in Bulgaria.  Thank you, Professor Zefer. You are right, there is still a lot to be done,  both on television and in the public eye.  We want to give our modest contribution in this direction. Take our greetings from Sofia,  many greetings to Ankara,  to all our villagers  who are watching our show.  That was all for today.  That was all for today in  Visible and Invisible, the story with Stefan Dechev.  Thank you dear viewers that we were us. Don't forget to like and subscribe to our YouTube channel,  as well as share this video on Facebook.  See you next time! Thank you.