 The story of the man who was involved in the revival process.  Today I am meeting with a man who was involved in the revival process.  He was a coward and a policeman.  You probably have heard or heard historical testimonies of victims of the revival process.  Today you will hear those who did it.  They did it with their hands, with hammers, sticks and pistols.  The system was falling apart.  Some people wanted to live with their names freely chosen.  Turkish names.  Some idiot from the communist regime decided that he should change their names.  So everything started.  And Venci, our storyteller, was there, under the rain of stones and the sea of gills,  in the excitement of the revival process.  What's your name?  I'm Serden Safvat Arnazov Angelov. I'm a Bulgarian citizen.  How old are you?  I'm 45 years old.  I understand that when you were young you were a militia officer.  Yes, we graduated from the Lithuanian school in 1988 with a degree in success and we were appointed to the Kat-Russe sector as a kid in the auto-control department.  What is this? Katadzhi?  Katadzhi, yes, but I say it in the official language.  Yes, but to make it clear, Katadzhi.  Katadzhi, exactly.  Katadzhi. At what age were you when graduated from Katadzija? At 20 years old.  At 20 years old?  Yes.  You graduated from this school very early.  I was in the 10th grade.  I was 16 when I graduated and at 19 and a half  I graduated from the medical school.  You became a socialist medic.  You can say that.  I wanted to become a medic since I was a kid.  I wanted to help people policeman. To help people.  This is your dream?  Exactly. A childhood dream.  To become a policeman?  Exactly.  But you went to Russia and they distributed you a cottage. Did you want that?  In Russia, since we were 13 people and I was a volunteer in 1988, the third, I mean, I succeeded,  they offered me the best place, which was then in the structure of Medvere,  Sector Cut, in the city of Rosy. One bar and I went there.  With a cottage? Exactly. I was in the structure of the sector cut, one block and I got there. How did you get into the events, tell me in detail how you got into the events around the process?  The process for me was something like an appeal, a process.  So I didn't know in the long run what he was thinking. And this happened in May.  I found the date on the Internet.  May 19th, a Sunday afternoon.  In which year?  In 1982.  They started to leave on June 1st.  I think that at the end of June the war started.  Then Todor Zhukov came out to speak and they left. Exactly.  And before that you participated in the events?  So we participated in the culmination of these events. They started a long time before that.  While I was in medical school, we were hearing about miracles, what happened in Kursk.  What did you hear?  We heard, for example, that our students, that is, the older ones, were there for 4-5 months after they had enough time for training.  They were assigned there, they were doing some postings, some violent actions.  They said, I have only heard about this thing.  But I know it was scary in the district. It was scary.  When I was in the military school, I heard about terrible things.  What?  For example, with machine guns, with BTR tanks, with the tanks that entered the village, violence, killing, stabbing, breaking heads, people who are illiterate,  no one knew where they were, we heard about the  Pazdrajevski district, we heard that there were such prisoners, they were called then the police.  We only heard, but nothing categorically, no one told us, because we were on the border of Pazdrajevski.  Did you have political officers then?  Yes, we had a police officer in Pazdražek. The political officer was the one who followed the decisions of the Politburo, the Central Committee, the BKP etc.  But what happened to us, I can't speak specifically, it happened that we were fired.  How?  We were fired because we were children who grew up in the construction industry.  In 1985 they started talking about the truth about socialism, what it is, how it is.  We were simply fired.  We were the ones who, when our political officer stood in front of the company, we told him again. In the 90s they started to talk about socialism, what it is, what it is, what it is. They just stole us.  We were the ones who, when our political officer was speaking in front of the company, we said it again,  and no one could understand where the things came from.  We were the only one who did it.  The system started to fall apart.  Exactly. Our eyes were open to the truth.  We had understood that socialism was not what we had talked about and what we had been taught.  We knew about the Gaghanian deception called socialism.  But we could not do anything because we had learned it inside.  Outside, no one in any way, we were absolutely apolitical, no one cared about politics, no one thought about politics.  We wanted to become revolutionaries, to serve society and the people.  I am sure that there were such many swords of all of us who were there.  But gradually, over the years, things started to break through my blood.  So, I understand that you have a dream to become a policeman and at 20 you are already a policeman.  Exactly.  But you have the door behind your feet, they send you directly to these events.  So, it's not direct, I will tell you, it year passed, a little bit less than a year.  I arrived on 1st August 1988, I was on the way to the sector with the order.  These events took place in May 1982. How did it all happen?  In Russia there is a rally that is held every year under the patronage of CBA.  This is a car championship on the road junction of Bogov. I was there only once. This was my first year, when I was already a member of the team.  This week our shift was on work.  On Saturday the training is held, and on Sunday the season itself.  On one of the tracks of the circles, which is a break, we get an alarm. We received a call from the radio station.  Everyone was called to the court.  They were gathered there.  In front of us was the Pope, Pope Ennev, who was the head of the police in the whole district of Mevere.  Below him was Alexander Stefanov, who was the deputy head of the state for the district management of Mevere  and Jordan Krstev, who was a higher-ups  or a Major, I can't remember exactly,  who is Deputy Chief of National Police.  He came to us and said,  Sir, I'm sorry, I'm a friend,  I'm sorry, I'm very sorry,  we need to help our colleagues from the outskirts. There were riots, violations of public order.  I beg you, for an hour, after an hour, I met again in the guardhouse.  Go home, full-fledged weapons.  What does full-fledged weapon, a full-fledged gun, a full-fledged ammunition, a police stick, a piece of cloth.  We had to take the cards, the bags, in which we write the names of the people and the sticks.  And the uniform.  And the uniform, the full-fledged uniform, so that the headgear and the official uniform should be worn.  Exactly. The uniform is not official.  But with a cap.  In one of the meetings we were there.  We were all there.  Then we were given the following instructions.  You go under the leadership of Mr.  Mr. Dogar Jordan Krstev,  who is the deputy chief of the police,  you go and take action  of our colleagues from Razvat,  because there are riots, there is experience of of experience in the government, which is a state violation.  Are you paying?  At first, yes, plus I pay.  Because this is a very big job to say a state violation.  Well, you pay, but what can you do? I am with a 10-digit contract, borrowed from Pazarchevka.  I have no right to... no, no, I have no right to borrow the language at all.  Do you have to pay? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We had about 20 cars, and we were 80-100 people in front of us.  A group of about 9 Russians.  And you didn't know where to go?  We knew we were going down.  But we didn't know what was ahead of us.  Nobody told us anything.  We went in the direction of the road that leads to Sofia and Varna.  We drove...  With which cars or trucks?  Militia cars. Only militia cars.  With lamps?  Yes. We drove down through the red water.  Who knows where the road is.  About 15 km from the bottom we were met by a barricade,  about 3 or 4 barricades,  on the road, stones,  laid bare stone, made in the form of pyramids.  This was to be fun. So they started the event much earlier than we started.  That's how we think, because these barricades were the goal at the moment, some barricades to slowly increase the support. to be able to pass the bus stops as slowly as possible.  What did you do?  The Bulgarian police made a special selection of us.  The police?  Yes, the police who changed the names.  What was interesting was that when we stopped for the car,  we met a stop and there was a car with two or three men.  Naturally, as a guard, we asked who was making these barricades.  We don't know who and how.  I said, you are taking away the stones, what are you doing?  So he didn't want to take away the stones?  No, he didn't want to take away the stones, they were completely erased.  Erased?  Yes, they were erased from the fight.  From you?  From some of us.  From some of us?  I have participated, I don't know who, but...  You didn't participate in the fight?  No.  How? What did they destroy?  What do you think?  Sparks, middlemen, boots, clothes, car and directly in the police station.  Because he refused to raise a stone.  Exactly. For the sake of the public order.  For the preservation of the military equipment.  There are many terms, many opportunities that can teach a person to repress him.  They can choose you for everything.  Absolutely.  Especially then.  I even comment on it. So this is the first fight.  This is the first fight that made me very sad.  Why?  Because the man was not guilty. He stood aside.  What is the fault that someone else has set the stones on the street so that they do not get caught in some way?  He is not guilty. Even more so, he cannot take them away.  Imagine, he threw two tons of stones and he got lost. How can anyone take them away? They are put there with 23 people, they are't take them off. Imagine two tons of stones and you are on the road.  How can anyone take them off?  They are put there with 23 people, with horses.  But whatever it is, since then the adrenaline has not risen.  Down, up, aha, they say, there are a lot of people here,  maybe there will be something that we did not expect.  It's a double story.  Yes, because we are on the road, on the main road,  but still the main task is to put four or. When they change buses, cars,  to put 4-5 camels and so on,  it's just a labyrinth, you can go under the labyrinth.  You can't go directly.  So you have a strategy.  Yes, a complete strategy.  Everything was normal.  This was the first time I was on a bus.  I said to my colleagues,  I don't need to get used to this person.  I said to my colleagues,  why are you getting used to this half-dead person?  This is a conversation between me and my colleagues.  But it is the same now. We are perfect.  Yes, but this is being done on purpose at the moment.  Yes, they are raising their voices and now they are saying that they are absurd.  Now you will see what will happen to me.  What were the absurdities?  The habits of the mother.  Yes, the mother is Turkish, the my mother is in Turkey, we will kill them, we will do this and that.  You know how it is.  I don't know how it is, because they are not from Turkey.  So, to raise your adrenaline, you start to f**k your mother in Turkey,  where to raise now, the rest of the family, you know how it is.  They are 100% big strategists, they are sure.  They didn't build it so well, they didn't make it so good, that there is just nowhere.  I am not saying this, I am thinking about this, by the way.  There, too, the same propaganda of strategy is being poured into us.  The medical school.  Yes, the party, for the party, the people, the party-people, that's all they say.  Party-people, but at some point you see that there is no party-people.  There are local philadels, commercial philadels.  Like now we have the local philadords, like the local feudal lords now.  If they were capitalistic feudal lords, then there were local...  Party secretaries.  Ah, they were feudal lords. Exactly.  Yes, but the Turks were encouraged to beat them.  How? This is part of the game.  The propaganda knows how to manipulate us.  So, these Kuklovites, to be honest, they know how to  manipulate, how to achieve the gigantic manipulation over the masses.  How they inspired you.  Exactly. They inspired us on an ethnic basis.  They opposed us before the civil war.  They opposed us with this.  Before you meet them, you will know how to do it.  Exactly. The mother is Turkish, the mother is Turkish, we will feed them, we will beat them, this is normal.  We arrived long ago. The picture was... Before the city. We will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat them, we will eat crowd, and I said that he would not be wrong, because this is a group of people who are with a crowd. How many people were there?  More than 250, 300, 400 people, because there were also children.  Did you expect that they were Bulgarian Muhammedans?  In no way. Except for the brothers, we say that You were a woman, you had a wife and children.  Yes, I had a wife and children, old women, grandmothers, grandfathers.  You had posters.  Yes, two posters.  Below BKP, you wanted the names.  These are two?  The two posters that stressed us a lot.  This is the first time I see such posters.  Below BKP, give us the names.  You see, this is terrible.  Yes, in the direction of communism.  This is very terrible.  That's why you know, you are in the The police department knew and the other members knew more.  Until they broke through.  The moment we got behind us, a helicopter was flying over us.  Later we found out that it was Dimitr Stoyanov.  In the helicopter.  That's why we found out.  And on the other side, there was the dark-soul general, Dimitr Stoyanov.  He was the leader of great hero in Bulgaria.  He saved everyone from it.  We arrived, we saw the people from outside, our chief commander,  then the megaphone came out and said,  ''Drogari, you are violating the public order.''  And we slightly bowed to the crowd.  Let's say this is a crowd. Whether it is a crowd, it is a crowd. We bowed slightly, I was close, like the youngest, the crowd. Let's say that this is the crowd. If it's a crowd, then it's the crowd.  We were in the crowd, a little bit.  I was close to being the youngest.  I was training, I was training new karate,  culturalism, I was very young,  I was a five-year-old, I can say.  How?  Well, with a very serious self-esteem.  For me, I could easily deal with one or two people.  I trained for three years in Pasadzik.  Culturalism, karate, good physical training, I was well-known and professional.  And you got involved?  We got involved a little bit.  We wanted to explain that what you do is a violation of the social order,  that it is against the constitution, that it is against the law.  But they didn't listen to us at all.  They said, oh, murderers, murderers, murderers.  What did they say?  No one was killed?  No, no, no one was killed.  They just said, murderers, No, we are not murderers. They just said murderers, put their names, different names.  Did they say it in Turkish?  No, in Bulgarian.  When we left the hotel yesterday,  we pulled back.  I covered him with a blanket.  And only when we pulled back,  I saw the children  between the people.  And the children went back.  The children went back? people, and the children went down.  The children went back?  Yes, they went back.  They prepared something?  Yes, they prepared something. The boss is here, the father is here, something to know.  And he said, what, what, and only when he heard what, they flew to us like stones. I was in one of the first cars and there was a stop. The stop had these blocks, there were these broken blocks that were built.  I don't know if you've seen them.  You can't find them again because they break down.  Yes, exactly.  The stone that hit the block, because it was vacuumed from the inside, it became like a bomb.  It was sprayed like a bomb.  All the officers who were around me, everything was hidden.  Any cadet that was driving, was coming under the car, under the car cover, in the car, there is no place to hide.  Rain from the stones, I can tell you a very scary thing.  A very scary thing, there is no way to escape. There is no salvation.  Did he hit you on the stone?  He didn't hit me, but he hit many people.  There were people with broken heads, broken hands, torn legs, here it was a very dusty place.  The car was like a stone, like a white car, the whole area was shaking.  On the hood of the car, there was a huge noise.  Rain from the stones. The situation was very bad.  There was no way to stop.  They were not provoked, they just stopped immediately.  What happened to them?  I can't tell you. When we went there, there was a BTR with about 7 or 8 people.  One BTR and one police officer who was the district inspector of the Makhlata.  We saw a crowd of people from all sides. There was no one.  Only you?  Only us. And there were no cameras.  If we had seen the cameras on the road,  to say that they were thrown in front of us, you would have told us that something could have happened.  There was absolutely no one.  Then, when the events passed, it is possible to say that they deliberately sent us.  Why?  And when they sent the Red Army, before that there were hungry dogs,  there were rebels, and we didn't know them.  And then, because there was power,  immediately it would be reflected in the international media,  international, European,  that the internal forces were thrown against peaceful protesters.  They were like, peaceful protesters, they didn't do anything wrong.  They were very aware of the main issue.  They didn't send us to the knees.  This is my opinion.  How many people were there?  Between 80 and 100.  So, twice as few.  Yes. And we have no shields, no helmets, we have nothing. How many people were there? Between 80 and 100. So, twice as few?  Yes. And we didn't have any shields, no helmets, nothing.  We had a military cap, a stick, a hundred sticks, a gun, a police stick.  We had nothing.  And your stick was for fighting?  The police stick was for fighting, there was no doubt about it.  They told us to use full combat weapons.  We had no problem with that.  We knew that we had to use full armed, but not to kill people.  The respect was very high to the police.  You knew how to fight without protecting civil human rights.  I have seen such a war.  This is a fact.  Nobody gives you an explanation of human rights and civil rights.  This commissary from Hemzaki, from 1976 or 2008, we didn't know about it.  We didn't know about it.  We didn't know it existed. What happened?  When he was hiding in the underground, there were 7-8 officers, Jordan Krasapi was there.  I won't mention him now, it's unethical to mention him in honest. I respect the police, but they were also present.  They know about the course of the case.  They were in command.  Exactly. No one was in charge.  All the officers we saw in the offices,  who punished us, who beat us,  they covered themselves like mice.  One by one, they didn't come out in front of the staff and say,  ''Combat, hide, nothing.'' And they left us with the fate of the cause.  From the staff or the attackers?  No one.  They were the  panic. I am the man who took off the incendiary and took out the pistol when I saw that we were already surrounded,  because we see through the sky that my youth are passing through the field and throwing stones at us.  They started to measure us from behind.  They were prepared. We saw the stones from behind.  We saw them later.  They were in the yards.  They started shooting from the left, from the right and from the yards.  We were in the trench.  I decided to take out the pistol and started shooting in the air.  I shot between 8 and 10.  I shot like I and 10 meters.  I shot like I did all my colleagues, because they didn't hear me.  They didn't hear the screams, they were deafening the world.  Yes, yes, yes.  You can't hear the truth.  Exactly. And this happened after the rain.  I made it like a dead man, with my hand out of the hole.  Because it could be neutralized with a stone.  When I saw that they were running away from the left and right,  they were running away from the front,  I stopped shooting.  So they were running away a little bit?  Yes, they started running a lot.  Because they didn't know if they were shooting at meat or not.  Yes, exactly. But I shot them intensively.  They are not full, because they were very intensive. They were very full, because it was a very large patrol.  There were about 10 people in the squadron.  We had about 80 people.  Everything was in the field.  25 years ago we had a terrible war.  We had it thanks to our Turks. They are humble and hardworking people.  I know them. But they are also people who know that they do not want their roots to be cut off and their name to be taken away.  Some God, whether Allah or Savo, then saved us from a great trouble, from a Serbian trouble.  They can not think what could happen.  After the advertisements, the story of the medic part directly in the recovery process continues. The city of the revolution The story of the revolution The story of the revolution  The story of the revolution  The story of the revolution  Back then there were no newspapers during the revolution.  Back then the TV broadcasted operas and reports on economic successes.  Not like now. Everything was positive.  We were children and we didn't know that somewhere in Rodopita and somewhere in Dulovo blood was poured and bones were broken.  I continue the story of a medic who took part in the revival process.  He was ordered to clean up.  Where are the trucks? The people from the State Security who did this are still alive.  And until today these people are silent.  What happened when they fled?  The people fled. They ordered ordered to go to Degup.  But no one died.  The chiefs have their hands full.  We started to turn the radio stations, we started to receive orders.  Then a man, whom I didn't know, came to me.  I don't know where he was.  But did he show up?  He did.  How did he show up?  Well, he thought he was holding a violence.  He told us like this.  Where are you from?  Yes, he told us like this.  He gathered us in a group and told us that we had to see if there were people in these houses.  This is called cleaning. I didn't take it.  He didn't call it cleaning.  So, everyone who is in the houses, opens their trucks and they know where to drive them.  That's for the problem.  Yes. I say, wait a minute. What do we do with these people? What do we do?  What have we done? They haven't done anything.  Hey boy, fill up the water. You have no right to wash.  Okay, good.  Okay, today I will go to him and tell him.  You will tell them the following thing.  That if everyone goes to Turkey, if you return, you will be beaten.  Wait, what? Turkey is forbidden to go there? If all of them go back to Turkey, they will be beaten up.  Wait, what Turkey? Turkey is forbidden to go there. They are interested in this job, you are telling a lot, boy.  Okay, I'm telling a lot.  I have told a lot in the school and in the club, but I will tell the truth.  I have been uncomfortable.  So, you take me to your house on the left.  You take me to your house on the left. We entered the houses on the left.  The houses are in this alley.  Yes, so here is the stop, here is the right one.  We go back and enter the houses.  We enter the houses and start looking for people.  How are they? What are they? We find them.  They are lying in the closet.  What kind of people were they?  Well, elderly people.  Elderly women with scarves, scarves, even Bulgarian ones.  They were all angry.  And what did they do?  They came from behind another building, they hit, they fought.  Wait, you say it very carefully. Did you beat them?  To be honest, I was in my house, I went to the fire department to tell them a lot,  you can take as much as you want.  But you said, come out.  Come out, go. I said, who said, get out?  Come out, go. I said, I'm at home, there's no one to do the house.  Fight outside. There is no explanation, no one gave an explanation for anything.  Fight, fight and outside.  The trucks are waiting for them.  Because they talk. When they talk, they are against us.  Come on, go to the truck.  A military truck, for example, you know, you throw the trucks, they jump up, they throw throwing potatoes up, and so they cleaned themselves about 5-6 hours before the end of the day.  Did they have blood?  We didn't have much blood.  We didn't have much blood.  Exactly, we didn't have much blood.  But a colleague, who had left a Bulgarian house, he was taken and we sent him to the hospital.  From there we realized that things were not according to plan.  But the situation is still inside the building.  After we finished cleaning this area, we entered the building.  There the things were was out of control. What did you see?  I saw animals that had run to the ground, about 30-50 people.  The blood was pouring like a river.  I didn't see what was happening, but I saw the result.  Stinging people, suffering from pain.  No help. The one who asked wanted help received more than the regulator.  The one who was silent, you are doing a roll call, you are silent, fight!  And he? And he. So you are silent once, fight, and you speak once, even more fight.  If you want a doctor, the doctor is with the cup on his head.  The situation was out of control.  I see my colleagues as animals, but not as servants of the MGR.  There were no laws. And if I wanted to help one of them, I would have received a beating too. That was the situation.  So, your Dramini was holding the Bulgarian side, the Bulgarian police?  That was something abnormal.  Or you already saw that something bad was happening?  Wait, this is not normal.  We neutralized some police officers who were against the constitution and law.  We neutralized them. Why did we have to kill them?  Why? They were tied with a rope, neutralized, they jumped with their heads in the water.  You understand me? A madhouse, a full madhouse.  Things escalated.  And the way they did it first, this is not normal, this is animalistic.  Animalistic, it doesn't matter that I was the hero. I said this is not normal.  I was the hero of the day, because with my actions we broke this crowd.  No one gave any instructions what to do. But you can't do this,  to neutralize people who want the rights.  There is no way to do it. This is genocide.  But there were no corpses?  There were no corpses.  Were there dead or alive?  Instead of when I was there, there were wounded who were unconscious.  Those we were throwing water at, those we were beating adrenaline.  Which, for example, from fighting, gives you the ability to sleep without consciousness.  You fight so much that you can't sleep without consciousness.  It takes only seconds and you get stuck again.  What happened? They were on the verge of death.  They were with these twins, they were used.  Why did you have to kill them? Why did you continue to kill them?  How long did they beat you? 40 minutes, maybe an hour or two.  With blood.  I have never seen so much blood in my life.  They killed many people.  I can't tell you exactly one of the fights.  Here is the bathhouse. I have been there for a long time.  They killed about 80 people from the bathhouse.  They were making a mess.  Those who were covered in blood,  maybe they were imams, I can't imagine.  They became a great thing.  A madman, a complete madman.  I will tell you, for example, the police sticks were broken in two.  Inside they have a very metal base, they broke in two.  There were sticks that were made of rubber, they are very hard rubber, they broke the stick in two, from the black hit, from the black hits, they hit the body, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard, they are very hard I was bleeding, the whole body was bleeding, the whole body was bleeding, you understand? This is not normal. Why? Because it was not good for anyone to do this.  But you think so now, then you didn't think so?  I thought so again. Believe me, I thought so again.  The human in me was on the ground, but I could not change anything.  Well, you say about your blows, you also gave up.  Yes, I gave up blows to those who were outside, houses.  Do you remember any of the eyes, the victims?  I can't tell you honestly.  Old people were somewhere, somewhere out of the blue.  I hit myself, people hit me.  For example, here is a man who was completely blind,  I can't imagine him, about 55 years old, blind.  What can I tell you, a madman.  I personally tell you honestly, if I hit him 2 meters,  I will tell you I'm crazy, maybe I'm crazy.  Because I didn't need such a thing.  I didn't need it, just know. I'm telling you, everyone was beaten to death hospital. I didn't need to do that. I didn't need to do that.  So, everyone was beaten to death, but you didn't.  I am telling the truth.  I hit two or three people,  but it wasn't an escalation.  You didn't hit them?  No. I shot.  I admit I used the weapon.  I used the weapon  and thanks to that weapon  they were neutralized.  So we were going to win. Maybe we were going to take their place,  as I am now, if it had not been done.  I was smart, but not in the way I saw my colleagues do.  Could you negotiate with them?  No, no negotiations. Everything is better decided by the government.  The goal was to take them down and to sell them to by the government. By the state? So you can beat them and scare them? Yes. The goal was to beat them, to persuade them to leave the state.  This was the goal. We didn't know it.  But how do you force them to leave the state when you just kill them?  You tell them to go to Turkey.  We told them to go to Turkey, otherwise we will kill all of them.  You kill them until you kill them.  We beat them on an ethnic basis. All types of beating.  Your mother is Turkish, you know what you are thinking?  What do you think? What is a muci? A muci, for example, is a Turkish. All types of This was politics, because they opened borders. This was planned, we didn't know it.  The state security told them to go to Turkey,  if they return, they will be beaten to death.  I said, how will they be beaten?  This is not your business, boy.  This is what the state security told me.  I look back and say, they have used us.  They knew they would opening the borders.  The question was to be able to put pressure on them, how much more Turkey can be exhausted in a month.  How much more? That was their goal.  To put us in a regional conflict with Turkey.  This is the war of the great powers, Russia and America, or the USSR and America.  To put us in conflict. And this happened.  These 360,000 people who came to Turkey for one month,  they brought a collapse to the Turkish economy.  That's why the inflation was so high.  This is later.  How did this day end?  Was it at night?  No, it was around 5.30-6.  The evening was somewhere.  This is daytime, not nighttime.  Yes, it is not nighttime.  Not at all. All these people were taken away. So this was daytime, not nighttime. Yes, it was nighttime, not the morning. After that all of these were brought,  with trucks loaded with lorries,  with lorries thrown, taken...  Where?  In the fire safety area.  In the fire?  Yes, in the fire.  But what was in the fire safety area  was the fire.  In the fire, you say?  Yes, in the fire. You get inside, you could see the fire under the letter P, the letter P, the people on the ground with their heads against the wall, those who were helplessly lying on the ground.  You could see the pain, the people who had more eyes, more blood, and there was a fire inside.  They closed the doors, put two troops in front and that was it.  Did they want to see you in the evening?  No, no one wanted to see me in the evening. The internal troops were dispossessed in Razga and there were about 7-8 boys.  That's it. They put me in front.  But the BTR with Tom Imanache were up and all the units?  Yes. There was a BTR and I don't know why they sent us. I have no know. I am a member of the Sector Cut.  What is the problem with the production process? Why did they send us there?  We asked ourselves this question. Why did they send us there?  There is a common ground. There is no common ground with us.  We are not the people who can solve these things. We are the public.  Who wants to send us according to you?  Those who are familiar with the internal muscles. They created internal muscles.  They created them. They are internal muscles. What happened them, they are exactly internal.  What happened on the third day? They sent 20 people.  We have no information. I will only tell you what happened after us.  So what happened? They told us that all consumers who are not party members,  we will be transferred to Russia. Only party members remain in the evening.  Now I learned from them that there were martyrs there.  I can't tell you how true it is, but I know there is a monument in Dulovo.  They told me that those who were killed were the ones who died from their wounds.  I can't tell you how true it is, but there is no information on the Internet.  Only in Dulovo it is written that there was a rally of the medical forces  with the protesters. There is no says that there is a clash of the mercenary forces with the protesters.  There is no case that the problem has been reached, for example, that it started from the fight we had today.  While in the village of Ezerche, a few days, two days later, there were killed three or four people, that's what it says on the internet.  But from the fight?  They say that it was an accidental crash, but we know what happened there.  From the bottom and from Ezerche, the escalation of tension opened the border immediately with Turkey.  To exit.  Yes, one month after that.  Do you feel the wine now?  Of course I feel the wine.  So many years later.  I wanted to say it much sooner.  Didn't you want to say, I was right, or that was the time?  We were never right.  You were never right to beat them?  Never.  But you fulfilled your oath, this can justify it.  I fulfilled my oath against the Constitution.  The violation of human rights.  Then you know what was the Constitution, it was the party in the end.  They put us in a trap.  They sent us to the victim's prison.  But you were the victims, you were to the prison. They sent us to a victim's prison. But you were the victims. Weren't you the victims?  Because they opposed our ethnicity against the people, against the police.  They opposed the people who wanted sacred things, the human things.  The name was given to them from the Holy Spirit.  We had that. We had the honor and dignity of citizens who feel part of the Bulgarian people.  of citizens who feel they are part of the Bulgarian people.  For example, a representative of mine comes to my house and says to me, you say to yourself today, Hasan, come to me, go away,  how will you work for me?  I just say to myself, how to be Hasan, or for me, the second.  Hypothetically, I say to myself, how do you feel every Bulgarian citizen?  And those people who made the most difficult process,  and those who donated millions and a half of Bulgaria,  leave Bulgaria, are the same people.  They used force methods, now with economic and political slavery.  They forced one million and a half Bulgarians to leave their homeland and become slaves in other countries.  People are the same. That's why I'm provoked by this thing.  You can't admit it because the state can't be improved in the same way.  I want to say one thing to the Bulgarian people.  Don't be fooled by bigger Turks than the Turks.  I'll tell you why.  Because I've been to Turkey many times.  And I know what the real Turks are like to you.  You are Bulgarians there and you are peasants there.  Yes, but here they are Turks.  Ah, this is the Gnostic deception.  They claim that they are Turkish citizens,  and there they call them Bulgarians and peasants.  Stop acting like you are not.  So you are saying that there are no Turks?  There are no Turks.  There are peasants.  They are called Bulgarians.  Proshka, do you want to ask?  Of course I want to ask for a kiss.  I know how I would feel if someone would do such a thing to me.  From whom? For example, when you meet people downstairs?  No, I can't tell you. I don't know anyone there.  I've met people with a small football team when I had such a big goal to play.  I've never even mentioned it to anyone because I'm ashamed of it.  I'm ashamed and sorry.  What happened later, after you killed them, after you moved to Russia?  After we moved to Russia, we, at least the whole city of Russia,  we maintain relations with many people. We are on the way.  We started to tell the truth. The whole city understood what had happened.  We were immediately neutralized the authorities to sign a declaration that we won't tell more about the  incitement.  So you signed it after the incident, so you wouldn't tell how you were beaten?  Exactly. The whole town said that the prisoners told the truth.  And it reached Sofia, to the Minister of Internal Affairs.  And from there we were immediately authorized with a declaration, a sign, that if someone says a word  about the resurrection process,  all the consequences for the release of the state secret will be borne.  I am a father of two children. What can you do? Nothing.  Do you ever dream?  Many times.  What do you dream about?  I dream about the blood.  I was in all my life.  To be so obsessed with memory, 23 years I was in the blood, I was in the blood, I was in the blood.  Everything was here and there.  When did you stop being a medic?  In 4 years.  I quit the subject in 1992.  I quit and went to the protests, because everything that was done, the evil in me,  when they are done, and until a little while nothing has changed. I was 22. I left him to protest, because everything that was done to me, the evil that was done to me,  and until recently nothing has changed.  But some people still claim that you are a bandit, that you are involved in illegal things.  I'm glad. I'm glad that it's like that.  I'm glad that I'm telling you something. I have never taken any How would you come to such a meeting? I would come there, I would look into the eyes when I speak.  I would look into the eyes and ask for forgiveness.  Even for actions that I have not performed, I would ask for forgiveness.  Because what we did was disgusting.  This was cruelty, also only for the animals, the predators.  This cannot be a behavior of people who, for example, protect the interests of the people,  as we are the citizens, we are the slaves of the people.  Nothing is true.  We protect the interests of the Party of the Policheska Party,  and only their interests.  And we keep the masses in obedience and sovereignty.  Where are these people now, your bosses?  Did the militant people die since then?  I think they are still alive and healthy.  They are alive and healthy.  Even, I will tell you, Alexander Stefanov,  the head of the state security,  was also the head of the district for many years.  During the time of democracy?  Yes, during the time of democracy.  He was appointed, I think, from 1975 to 1998.  They appointed him twice.  Once he was head of the police, once the head of the police.  We are back to the state security. They continued to rule after 1989. They are beaten twice. Once they were beaten, once they were beaten. We are back to the state security.  Absolutely.  They continued to rule after 1989.  They are still here.  These are the people who had issued an order to beat.  Exactly.  Comment on them.  They are here. They are here and nothing has happened to them.  There is no interest in the political parties at the moment, in the electoral process, to put the truth on the table.  This is a fact from all political parties.  Why don't we once and for all put an end to this process?  Once and for all tell the truth. And I will tell you something else.  If I meet the Turkish prime minister now, with these self-confessions, I will tell him this.  Mr. Erdogan, if now I gave the opportunity to all Bulgarian people to get compensation for what we have done, that is, the atrocities we have committed,  you will now receive compensation for what you have done,  that is, justice, however, you will be given a Bulgarian  medal, whatever, with a village badge, with a Turkish passport,  but we will also claim for the death of my grandmother in 1906,  because my great grandmother lost her property and lost her life.  So you want to say that you admit your sin, but the Turks admit their sins too?  Absolutely. We can admit what we have done for 23 years, but they have to admit that they are the Bulgarians who were besieged by the Black Sea.  Yes, I know that.  A million Bulgarians, the Solitude, the Socialism and so on. They have to admit it too.  With my own confession, I admit it. I understand your thesis and why you do this.  You want to have justice from one side and from the other.  Exactly.  We have to admit our mistakes in the process of purification.  And they have to admit the purification of the Odrin's church.  Exactly. This is the path of the conversion.  This is the path of the humiliation of the priest.  So you can't admit something,  and the other person can't admit it.  You can't. We want to admit the purification in Odrin,  but we also admit the process of purification. You can't do that. We want to acknowledge the purgatory in Odrin, but we are not acknowledging the process of the funeral.  Aren't we acknowledging too many cases?  Because the Turks are just about to admit it.  We are obliged to want.  We want. We acknowledge it, but we want it.  And this is something that I do in the media  not because I want to be a hero,  no, because some people  should get compensation for what we have done.  What compensation should they get?  Commitment or money? I'm not talking about money. They should receive compensation for what we have done. What compensation?  Commitment or money?  I am not talking about money.  Moral compensation?  Exactly.  What do you think about the fact that many jami'is are being made?  That now with the development process, there is a such a thing?  Here we are already going to a completely different topic.  What you do, you, the Muhammedans, to the Bulgarians, stop doing it.  So if you think that you will make 50, 100 or 200 mosques and in this way you will defend our religion from the Christian Muslim world, you are wrong.  I am a partner in a Bulgarian company. I know a lot of friends in Syria and I support them in what is happening.  But let me explain. The freedom of religion. But if you think that with religion you will enslave us again, there is no way to do that.  This is the gigantic manipulation of Islam at the moment. Here is the opposition of the ethnic groups.  They have found themselves in the law of the law, the capital is the Jiminy. They are now, of course, they are not committing hatred.  Yes, they are committing, but we don't know what they are saying.  Can there be a clash again?  I doubt it. Honestly, I doubt it. I don't know what they are saying. Can there be a conflict again? I doubt it.  Honestly, I doubt it. Because I can deal with each one of them.  I can deal with each one of them.  I think that many people like me are on the same page.  We can deal with each other, but without politicians.  When you are involved in politics and religion, it becomes terrible.  When there are no politicians, when there are people like you,  when there is a human being, when there is a person like you,  you can always deal with each other.  But if you have an animal in you't communicate with you, then yes.  We owe the debt to the dead and the dead.  25 years later, 30 years later, the revolutionary process is used in every way to divide people in Bulgaria.  Today, the events are not used by other people, revanchists with Islamic slander.  The truth is simple. Everyone should live freely and say what he decides.  Everyone should keep the laws of the country and not work against them.  Make an honest confession from Russia that he told what we should be ashamed of.  And make an honest confession from us to remember and to protect ourselves from our mistakes.  From the idiotic mistakes of the Arabian Peninsula.  It is the second largest city in the Arabian Peninsula.  It is the second largest city in the Arabian Peninsula.  It is the third largest city in the Arabian Peninsula.  It is the third largest city in the year of the He died in 1989, and this event is long.  To be honest, I didn't expect this video to be broadcasted, but after 8 months of recording, it was broadcasted.  The recording was taken out. It was broadcast on a TV that we all know is controlled by TPC.  The interesting thing is that what I said, almost for everything that happened down there, is broadcasted, but with a little detail.  The detail is that my statement about my opinion on DPS and GEP was cut out from the moment of making this material.  What is it? My self-confession for my participation in this process is based on a few things.  One of them is the decoration of the National Assembly, which was established a few years ago,  which admits that the process was a form of ethnic cleansing and genocide against Bulgarian and Bulgarian- are people who sought their rights from some more powerful and more powerful people.  My self-knowledge was this self-knowledge, also in the film, the level of my self-knowledge in the world affair, which was published on 20 November 2012.  who published them on 20th of November 2012. When the attack of all of us, the Bulgarian fools,  in relation to the dictator and his government, Bulgarian Bruce, was very long.  On the 19th I can say that I was the representative of the Bulgarian public,  I went to Cyprus on the 20th to make my self-recognition before the second affair  and there I was published.  The comments you see there are very different,  colorful, people who are paid,  people who are here, from the city,  former citizens, but there are some people who say  yes, this is not true.  And because there, in the site of the fair,  there were a lot of comments, and because a lot of people accused me that everything I said was a lie, I decided to continue and to get to the end, to say the truth again on the website.  Let those who criticized me on the website, they insulted me, that I was stupid, that I didn't listen to the publications, they took me and said,  let them stand in front of me and say, ah, this is not true.  Then let's see what kind of payment, what is the puppet, the one that is paid to spit on the websites,  to spit on Facebook, people who want to tell the truth as it is.  This is what these people form, such people, the dead prostitutes, form a society of people who will not stop for everything that has happened in Bulgaria and has happened in the last 24 years and beyond.  What did I say about the DPS that was cut off? I will tell you the truth on the spot. They do this because of the Bulgarian Khomeini. Why?  Because they live in absolutely feudal communities.  In every settlement, from where they are raised, they are extremely  inhabited by the Bulgarian Khomeini.  Down, in the village, in the town, in the municipality, where the main The main population of Bulgaria is the dictatorship under the DPS cap.  Yes, the last 4 years have been a perfect meeting.  The dictator is Boyko Borusov.  But let us not forget that Ahmed Ogan is not a smaller dictator than Boyko Borusov.  On the contrary, he is more cruel, more cunning, more cunning.  While Boyko Borusov is the typical representative of the Baigyan society, here we have a very cunning opponent.  And I say exactly the same thing there. DPS, I turn to the Bulgarian Bulgarian leaders.  I say this, DPS, turn to the Bulgarian Bulgarian leaders, get out of your fields and stop living in field offices.  This was the first thing.  The second thing that was wrong was GERD.  These many confessions occurred when GERD wanted to open offices in neighboring Turkey to the political parties.  Why? Because they wanted to use an electorate, the Bulgarian-Munanites, who are Bulgarian villagers, to vote for the Egyptian political party.  They wanted to betray them, as if they didn't know what was happening in Bulgaria. I have sent my publications to the Egyptian Public Party to make an official visit to Turkey.  I did it. Why? Because you can't accept a decoration of a general assembly.  Because the form of the ethnic-political union is a positive percentage.  And at the same time you keep the bombings from the local agency of the Miteci.  Who is in charge of a very large income in the treasury of money, if the head of the agency is a thief.  The website of the republic publicizes my statement and I continue to confirm it.  He has stolen a part in the events downstairs with me.  You can't even be the head of the agency and steal a part.  Boiko Borisov cannot in the case of Boiko say that he is involved in the theft process.  And you go to the attorney and say that Agos Vujic is for me. And there is no way. There is no way.  We were asked questions from the director of the show, Karbovski.  What is her opinion on the situation in Bulgaria at the moment and this Ksenopavlovskaya and Chumenist's wave also close to the city.  I will tell you one thing.  I live in Cyprus.  This country is the immigration zone.  Here live the most diverse ethnic groups, religions and religions.  There is the occupation line.  There, where the two nations were divided in 1974-1976,  they could not live together.  On the other side are the Cypriot Turks and on the other side the Cypriot Greeks.  Look what has led to this.  To the division.  A new ruler divided of two parts.  Occupation of foreign territory, of a foreign country.  This is absolutely illegal.  This is Turkey.  This is what we want with Bulgaria.  I will tell you, when the rulers in Bulgaria, they are international rulers,  want to avoid the essential problems for the solution of solve the problems of the Bulgarian nation.  Our remaining as a nation is always conflict and problems.  If it wasn't for the Bulgarian soldiers who stole, robbed, and kept them alive, now they would be homeless.  They are not in fashion, they are rebels. Just like the Mishronti and Kokovozi, the masonry.  Terrorists, Al-Qaeda, Al-Qaeda, Al-Qaeda,  Al-Qaeda is dead, Syria is facing Bashar.  Al-Qaeda is no longer a terrorist organization.  Now I will tell you what will be the next war.  From above.  Infancy.  Foreigners will attack us and try to enslave us.  Because no one will accept the lies that Al-Qaeda is a terrorist organization.  It is not a terrorist organization that is responsible for their own actions.  Then the Bulgarians will start.  The xenophobic wave, xenophobia, the Syrians without women, Syrians without women...  And all the Bulgar in Bulgaria, the whole national energy,  is directed towards the refugees in Bulgaria.  Why? There are no refugees.  The average of the land salaries, the labor of the land,  the low salary of the Bulgarians.  The fact that we don't have 5, 10, 20, to make a video, we are not in the same boat.  The fact that Boyko Borisov, Oglu, together with Erdogan,  they have been killing thousands of Syrians, Algerians, Moroccans, Bangladeshis, Sri Lankans,  there is nothing else. I have been to Turkey, I will tell you.  Turkey is a police state, it is not a dictatorship.  If someone thinks that he can create such a huge flow and the grinch in your country feels that he is wrong, then he should be deeply wrong. This was the intention of everything to be done so that the first responders can leave, so they can ask for leave, and so on.  But in this way, one thing is not investigated.  Corruption, which has the size of a storm. Yesterday I was at the Elkhata, I was on the bus, I saw a video with a friend.  Why? He says something very interesting.  Corruption, stop sharing, love each other, good, good, good.  Why? This was not reflected in the media.  Regardless of what they represent, a movement that I am not a member of.  But he is telling the truth.  Dear friends,  at the moment we are playing a scenario  whose speakers are those who organized in 1917  the revolution in Kudosia,  and later those who directed the Russian revolution. They are the same.  You cry on both sides.  Read Nikolov's books to understand the truth.  And by the way, because of these days he was killed.  Thank you for listening.